the study simply states that within the literature review, none of the previous studies were of sufficient quality to refute the null hypothesis - that dexamphetamine is not addictive.

not being able to refute the null hypothesis, that dexamphetamine is not addictive, is not the same as proving that it is true.

Animal tests don't require that we diagnose the animal with a mental illness. 

We can do animal testing for safety. An example would be to inject a rat with a high dose of a drug and see what bad things happen to them. If it looks like doses actual humans might need cause problems, the drug may not make it past that stage. 

We can do animal testing for efficacy (does the drug work?). But we can measure the effect by looking at the effect on certain cells in the brain or certain receptors we we know are important for treating depression. 

-im a doctor (pediatric hematologist) Not a psychiatrist, but in a past life I worked in a cellular biology lab studying the effect of schizophrenia meds on insulin secreting cells from a rat. The schizophrenia srugs work by blocking dopamine receptors. Insuline secreting cells also have dopamine receptors. We can measure the effect on dopamine secretion from these cells without having to diagnose the rat with schizophrenia.

your first assumption is wrong that's why. Just picture your triangle in a 3d space and extend out the lines from your triangle. There is no why to it. It is self evident.

The simple definition I require on my exams (in complete sentences) is: A scale is a linear array of unique pitches used in a key.

The American healthcare system is a fucking joke.

Aside from the fact that the rest of the world is bootlegging on American inventions which are funded by the ridiculously high costs. It's basically legal piracy: we pay absurd prices in order to develop brand new medicines which everyone else can copy afterward.

Don't take the sub name too literally.

i can speak firsthand as to physical withdrawal. every other weekend i'll take a day or two off vyvanse. the lack of energy and executive function is quite literally mind-boggling, even after four or five coffees. i don't nap during the day while i'm on stims; i'm compelled to take no less than two without them.

I got like $300 in my savings, I don't think I can do that, lol.

Yeah man an extra snack here or there or a sweet treat twice a week isn’t going to make you gain 50 pounds in a year. Unless your idea of an extra snack is a whole family sized bag of Doritos and a sweet treat is a quart of Blue Bell ice cream. 

For example, two KING SIZED Hershey’s bars per week for a whole year is only 37,440 calories. Assuming you kept everything else the same during that year, and the rest of your diet matched your metabolism, you would only expect to gain 10 or 11 pounds of fat that year. 

And that’s for a KING SIZED sweet treat, twice a week. Gaining 50 pounds would take 175,000 extra calories for the year, or 87.5 times the average recommended caloric intake for an entire day. Put another way, you’d have to eat about 25% more food than your body requires every day, *for an entire year*, for you to gain 50 pounds.

Sounds like the drug is increasing metabolism of fat independent of exercise, i.e. calories out.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

I legit just googled zorch only to find out it’s slang and has been in use for at least the last 23 yrs. You and I do not move in the same circles.

I'd get swept into obstacles and get badly injured.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

I might sound dumb but could you tell me how mountains block heat??

sorry too busy doing my homework....

You're certainly welcome to evaluate the quality of the research for yourself.

I'm not convinced it's addictive in the same way as street-tier meth. I've never gone into withdrawal when I missed days, or even nearly two weeks due to shortages. 

My focus got worse, of course, but I could largely treat that enough to be basically functional with caffeine, though the amounts I needed scaled up pretty quickly. But physical withdrawal? I had far worse withdrawal from nicotine and caffeine (and those I was able to titrate down! I had to nurse two bottles of mt. dew for a week after supply got better).

If stimulant ADHD meds got outlawed tomorrow, I'd either find a non-stimulant version that worked or I would go back to self-regulating with insane amounts of caffeine like I did for the first 46 years of my life. Stopping Vyvanse would be the easiest part of the process

You can just buy them online without a prescription, it’s very easy and cheap

What’s the risk with blood pressure meds?  Google didn’t turn up anything.

To refine they keep changing the formula in tiny increments and measure how their brains respond.

To make new drugs they do brain studies on sick and healthy people to see the differences in their brains.

They choose a key difference and use what they know about chemical reactions and neurotransmitters to create a reaction that makes the sick brain look more like the healthy brain.

Lmao, yeah that’s going to be a good way to get a conversation going. You could definitely learn a lot about tact.

Because your brain, specifically the part that governs reason and decision making isn't fully formed until your mid 20s. 

So your personality, ability to reason and understand things and to make logical decisions are all still developing. That means as a teen you just don't have the same mental capabilities as a full adult. Much more impulsive and self destructive behaviors. Many of these behaviors that would be classified as narcissistic,. impulsive, and antisocial are perfectly normal for teens.

Most people grow out of that as they mature and develop into adults. So diagnosis at an early age would be premature and just bad practice. A lot of healthy kids would be slapped with a life altering and stigmatized mental health label, go through treatment that would be traumatizing on its own, and possibly have adverse health effects if they're put on medications to try to control their behaviors. Speaking as someone who's dealy with a lot of mental health treatment, it's very difficult if not impossible to get rid of a label even if you get the diagnosis changed. The label also affects all your healthcare for your whole life, not just your mental healthcare.

 In the end you'd do a whole lot of harm and wouldn't even know if you're right until they were they were 25-26. Even then how would you know if you caught it early or if the treatment during development induced the personality disorder?

Even better as a YouTube question, then you can just watch it happen

There's this guy in his fifties who managed to turn his health around, but he took some fairly extreme measures to do so, like quitting his entire ass job for starters.

 and

You fuck a mouse up for baseline then try to fix those symptoms when they show elsewhere. Also brain scans/blood tests

The main issue, as I see it, is that many instinctual behaviors are sufficiently complicated that it’s difficult to see how they can arise from protein making instructions and timing signals buried in DNA.

so how do you refine anti psychotics? or make better ones?

Report me too please

You can also get subsidence from liquids being removed from rock

a grain silo with a dent in the top and everyone in town said it was caused by a cow thrown from a tornado. later heard the likely culprit was the Wendy's sign a couple hundred yards away.

I would like to expand on this; calling it “willpower” is making a sometimes unfair value judgment. Having to put up with being hangry all the damn time sucks, as does denying something that brings comfort, as does the cost of eating healthy and staying fit in both time and money.

I’m absolutely not saying willpower isn’t involved, and that people aren’t responsible for their choices or bad habits or outcomes, but I think there’s also some room for understanding that our biology and society are setting us up to fail. Some more than others.  Attributing it all to a matter of willpower alone trivializes the amount of active work and, in some cases, suffering, that goes into maintaining a healthy weight.

We look at how it affects their brain and body to ensure a drug is safe and reacts how we want it to.

If we know the disease is a lack of a certain chemical, does the medication safely make the brain release more of that chemical.

Animals don't get bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. While animals often show signs that look like depression there is no clinical diagnosis.

At Casinos, they call this gambling.

Fracking is not oil drilling.

Oil being within the pores of the rock is not why fracking may be necessary. Plenty of low porosity rocks have good permeability and don’t need to be fractured.

Fracking is a means of overcoming poor permeability/interconnectivity.

Huh, TIL. Seems like it’d be handier than individual pens, but other than that I’m not sure what the benefit is.

The biggest thing to remember is that the *blood sugar regulation* part is the main point of Ozempic, as the drug was first made for diabetics, and it does its job supremely well. The weight loss part of it is more of a nice addition, but not the main focus.

Unfortunately, the weight loss part of it worked more easily for non-diabetics, and they've hijacked the medication so much that for a while, there was a shortage for diabetics who *actually need it*.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions.

Anecdotes, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions.

Short answers, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

Full explanations typically have 3 components: context, mechanism, impact. Short answers generally have 1-2 and leave the rest to be inferred by the reader.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

I think that was an episode of *South Park*

That line about many parents being happy their child is eating at all… for real.

My son was a micropreemie, we had a feeding tube for years and he still goes to feeding therapy. I remember “failure to thrive”, I remember NG tubes and G tubes being ripped out, and the sensory challenges are never ending.

And he 100% knows he can use that in his most difficult times and that his father or I will cave because we ARE just happy he is eating at all. Most of our memories are of a child that literally couldn’t.

Why would you be there? Step one of a tsunami is the ocean recedes dramatically. That. Is. When. You. Get. The. F**k. Out!!!

It's partly due to the "colon blow" side effects! 🤣 🤣 🤣 🤣 🤣

But unlike Chantix, glp1's help me smoke much less and I do not have any dreams where I'm running real slow away from Pyramidhead who is coming to rip my skin off and wear it like a suit. so yknow, bonus!

Pretty sure this topic was covered in one of your recent lectures.

You should go to class and/or take better notes.

Im not ? Why dont you answer it instead of breaking the rules ?

Also, some people develop gastroparesis from it :)

You know “do re mi fa so la ti do”? That’s a scale. It’s called a major scale. On a piano there are 12 different notes before the names repeat. The white ones just have letter names: A B C D E F and G. The black ones also use the word sharp or flat along with the letter names. After the note G, the black note to the right of it can be called G sharp, then the next white key is A again and it keeps repeating. Of those 12 notes, 7 of them following a certain pattern make up a major scale. Those are the notes that a melody of a song come from.

So if we had twinkle twinkle little star, we would use these notes from the major scale: 1 1 5 5 6 6 5 4 4 3 3 2 2 1 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 1 1 5 5 6 6 5 4 4 3 3 2 2 1

Not all songs have notes just from the scale, but many do, and even songs with notes outside the scale only use the other notes a little bit.

It’s easy to see the patterns on a piano because of the white and black keys, but it’s actually the same on any instrument. Some countries have different notes and different scales, but a scale still means the notes that you pick from to make your melody.

Why does this person keep asking this sub questions about mental disorders and the study of mental disorders?

OP are you trying to Reddit ELI5 your way through a university course?

Lehman Bros got a AAA rating from S&P like, less than a year before they went under, maybe even less than 3 months. It’s all a damn farce.

I attempt to explain this well like you are a middle school kid. Extremely simply put. It is due the relatively low interest rate. Low rate weakens currencies because nobody wants to buy and keep it, when demands are less than supplies, things get cheaper. Japan kept the rate negative for long. Abe Shinzo wanted it low, it’s called Abenomics. Abe demanded QE (quantitive easing, this basically means printing too much cash, therefore currency becomes cheaper which also weakened Yen, because like I said excess supplies outpacing demands, market surplus, makes the price falls) for too long. And while US raised the rate, Japan kept it relatively the lowest. This led to the foreign traders borrowing Yen in masse and made them having invested in stocks like M7. This is called Yen Carry Trade and it was Warren Buffet’s investment strategy for a while. When BOJ finally raised the interest rate in like 10 years, in August 2024, those traders had to sell stocks to pay back the loan to Japanese banks before BOJ raises the interest rate, therefore it triggered the massive stock sell-off, it’s called Yen Carry Trade Unwinding. The US stock market plummeted massively and also the crash rippled globally, check the chart on August 5th in 2026, black Monday.

All the answers in this thread seem to be to miss the point. Can I try asking this question in a different way:

Pretend the universe has suddenly cloned itself. In one I start to take Ozempic and in the other I take a placebo. **I eat exactly the same in both universes.** Will I lose more weight in the Ozempic universe?

Negative.

They let you serve again in the case I am talking about.

This is what users generally say - "it turns off the food noise in my head".

I worked with loads of folks with Downs for about a decade. While many do have these conditions and issues, the variety is interesting. One guy that I still kick it with every once and awhile is more ripped than me. Competes in all kinds of special Olympics stuff and has biceps that dwarf mine (climbing 15 years here). Taylor is ripppppped.

the amount of calories required for emotions and other brain processes to function correctly is... 1200c!

False.

Depends. Insurance get a percentage of every medical treatment you have.  If you are chronically sick and require medical treatment, they get a cut of that. Then you or your employer pay enough to cover the treatement and the Insurer's percentage.  If there were a development for a single treatment that permanently cured, say, Type-2 Diabetes or high blood pressure, instead of a steady diet of pills and doctor visits - the insurance companies would make a lot less money.  Ozempic works as long as it's prescribed. Same thing, it's not a cure. The only problem is the insurance companies cannot simply raise their rates another couple of thousand a year to cover that - they're pretty much at the limit the market can bear, and obesity side effects generate plenty of cash flow.

but we're at a point where they don't need to always record to get that data  
...  
They just need to sample frequently enough to do pattern matching

...That's a recording.

The FAA just wasn't aware that the shitty JPEG spectrograms they published were enough to get rudimentary audio from.

And phones will eventually get powerful and efficient enough to do a lot of the processing on the device itself without having to transmit all that data back to their servers.

Sure. And if an when it happens, we can sue them for billions of dollars for the many laws that breaks. Unless of course people vote for legislators that would allow this, but since when are people stupid enough to vote against their own interests.

But of course not of that changes the fact that advertisers don't actually want this even if they could get it. Just from the business perspective there's little benefit capturing every single word that a phone hears. It's not useful for targeted advertising.

Hi, you sound a lot like me. I'm 5 foot 7, 190 pounds at my last physical. I've always been really active, but I think I just generally outeat my workouts. I'm in the gym three nights a week and also have a spin bike that I hop onto once or twice a week. I've been taking wegovy for a few days now, since...Friday? And the food noise thing is absolutely spot on. Its really interesting what I've experienced, even in a few days, and I hear it takes a little longer for more and more effects to start kicking in.

This! I eat way worse (calorie dense) on a glp1 than I did before I was taking a glp1 and I still lose weight at the lowest possible dose.

Commenting on ELI5: Do medications like Ozempic cause weight loss solely through appetite reduction and therefore calorie deficit, or is there any other mechanism at play?... The variability, even for an individual is HUGE. Yes, if you run a deficit, you will lose weight - but HOW FAST you lose it is determined by a number of evolve survival mechanisms. 

Trip one, and your “standard” calorie burn can drop by 1/3. Trip more than one, and it can drop by more than half. 

Those drops are *temporary*. Thermodynamics wins *eventually*. But not quickly, or easily… and woe be unto you when you exceed the minimum, because calories that your body would have burned before get stored as fat, instead.

In your bread and water example, you’ll lose a ton of weight for about 5-6 weeks, and then you will damn near stop for several weeks, and then start losing again at a slower rate. 

Then, when you do get enough calories again, you will pack on the pounds like crazy. A much, much larger percentage of excess calories will be retained as body fat. 

Homeostasis is a bitch, and metabolism is incredibly complex.

There's a so called "Kwik Pen" now that includes four doses in a single pen. That's probably what they're referring to. It's what I'm currently taking, though I previously used the individual pens.

Same here. I've been on it for a inch of days right now, but the difference in food noise or the pre-grumbling of stomach is very interesting. I've described it as the food noise still happening, but instead of right in your ear, its happening 15 feet away, and is not that urgent.

It's been an issue even before i tried losing weight. 

I think it's genetic. My dad's side of the family is very Italian and very large. But they all got large when they replaced whatever vice for food.

Depends. If you’re a mortal, the water sweeps you away with tremendous force. Often, you either drown or some debris could end you. However, if you’re Chuck Norris, a tsunami doesn’t hit you, you hit the tsunami.

I've always attributed that "food noise" to boredom.

The worst part about losing weight is just how damn boring it is.

yes you do. 

it's just done ass first.

 same mechanism same equipment.

 here's more!

The general discussion by those who use these drugs is "it stops the food noise".  You don't feel the urge to eat, to nibble, just for the sake of eating.  As one of my coworkers told me, years ago "I can't buy a six-pack of pastries and just eat one or two - I have to eat the whole lot in one day." Which, is exactly my problem too.  Apparently these drugs turn off that urge. The interesting thing is, with further studies they are finding some other interesting effects (or side-effects) of Ozempic drugs, from the trvial to the strangely wide-ranging. (Trivial - Ozempic breasts - weight loss, lower body fat, can result in saggy flat breasts)

Science article:

Beyond their well-characterized effects to lower blood glucose and body weight, GLP-1 medicines reduce rates of chronic kidney disease (CKD), myocardial infarction, stroke, and cardiovascular death in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D) (Figure 1). GLP-1 medicines also improve symptoms and outcomes in people with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), the majority with concomitant obesity and often T2D. Benefits have also been demonstrated in separate trials of people with metabolic dysfunction associated liver disease (MASLD), the majority with T2D and obesity; sleep apnea (concomitant obesity but not T2D); and osteoarthritis (obesity with or without T2D) (Table 1). This commentary summarizes evidence demonstrating beneficial effects of GLP-1 medicines on conditions other than T2D or obesity, including cardiovascular disease (CVD), CKD, MASLD, osteoarthritis (OA), obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), and peripheral artery disease (PAD) (Figure 1A

By definition, listening is the act of paying attention to sounds. Since phones are not sentient beings, they are not capable of paying attention, therefore they can never be "listening".

Checkmate, pedants.

Damn nature, you scary!

We have overwhelming evidence that diet and exercise lead to weight loss. It's nice to know fat people are not adult enough to take responsibility though.

Modern touchscreen use what's called capacitance to detect your fingers.

Basically, your phone maintains a weak electrical charge in your screen and detects when that charge is pulled away by your fingers.

That's the hardware side of it, the software is just seeing coordinates of where that is happening.

So your phone sees your fingers in 2 places and has instructions for what to do about your finger in each of those locations, so it does both.

Yeah I can attest to that. I used to think about a snack, then I'd get physically hungry from the thought, and then it became almost impossible to resist, despite knowing logically I had no reason to eat (and thus ate too much in a day). With Wegovy, that's gone. I'll think of the snack, but then my body will be "meh, I'm good, no thanks", and that ends there. I feel like I had forgotten that there was any state between being famished or feeling too full after overeating. Makes concentration on work (without a snack in hand) so much easier too.

A five year old wouldn't understand this

I pay $500 a month for 5mg kwikpen. I take it to lower my glucose. I was constantly in the pre diabetic range even though I eat well and exercise. I split the pen with my wife. She’s down 23 lbs in 10 weeks. I’m down 22 lbs in 14 weeks. I’m purposely eating to maintain my current weight.

Damn. I was hoping it was just social and, thus, fixable with the right circumstances. I didn't realize was part and parcel. Fuck that. 

Every person I've met with Down syndrome was a blast. Kind, fun and generous. They don't deserve any of the strikes against them, but I'll be a dead fish if I wasn't impressed with how they manage.

its actually built in a dry dock, a giant basin next to the sea. they build the whole ship on blocks then flood the basin and float it out, no crane needed. older yards used a slipway and let it slide in stern first

Margin trading is when you borrow money to buy more stock than you could without borrowing money.

- (Good) If the stock goes up, you make more money.
- (Bad) If the stock goes down, you lose more money.
- (Bad) You pay interest on the loan.
- (Bad) If the stock goes too far down, it can be seized and sold to repay the loan.  You might be forced to sell at the bottom of the market.

How does that add anything to the conversation? The point he was making is people eat too much. What kind of response is "yeah well people encourage them to"? Theyre adults.

So glad you can get diagnosed anonymously with no personal contact right here on this sub!

Reason why I switched, death penalty makes no sense, government can get it wrong, the cost is absurd

he did not try to cancel it ever , he tried to modify it , not cancel . you clearly watched this movie with your eyes close and ears plugged

Is there a multi dose pen? I’ve been on Zepbound for ~1.5 years and a month’s supply has always been 4x 5mL pens, regardless of the dose.

How do you think your sobriety would be if you had to have a beer or two a day now that you're no longer physically dependant on it?

we don't actually have good evidence that they're addictive.

mf doesn't believe that amphetamines are addictive

injectable willpower.

more like injectable hunger apathy.

It would be an absolutely tiny cruise ship that was launched by a slipway.  The Glen Rosa, shown in that slipway video, is 7040 GT.

Even a medium sized cruise ship is over 50,000 GT.

Exactly - and the debris from destroyed buildings has a lot more sharp edges and pointy bits, churning lethally.

It’s chemistry think of taste buds too much slat inedible, right amount perfect, too little bland. Same concept different object in thiase iron and strength vs bend ability

It absorbs water like a sponge and also roots can rot

Kind of like how our fingers go wrinkly if we've been swimming long

No they don't.  That's only for small vessels.  Despite the title to that video, those are not "gigantic" ships.  They are by industry standards tiny.

An example - the Flinter Atlantic in that video is 6687 GT.  

A cruise ship needs to be above *50,000* GT to be considered even *mid-sized*.

You don't slide a 50,000 GT vessel into the water.

So it’s injectable willpower. Basically. Yes I see those other bonuses. But those bonuses would only serve to support the “willpower”. 

I have my own views of ozempic and I can’t wait to see them get fat again as soon as they’ve been off it for a year. 

There is NO cheat code for losing weight and keeping it off. It remains true. 

Or sure take ozempic your whole life

Hello Brilliant-Let3512,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

yes it is, I was prediabetic, with family history of diabetes.  Initially Inusrance covered it, but then stop.  My PCP tried to appeal, but insurance said nope.  Now if I stopped taking it gained the weight became diabetic then they would cover it.  The math just didnt make sense to me.  The cost of the medication even over time, would be significantly less than all the health risks from diabetes.  Not to mention it is shown to have cardioprotective effects outside of just the weight loss.  luckily work insurance covers it through FHB and lillydirect.

The American healthcare system is a fucking joke.

Are we talking about the same healthcare system that invented Tirzepatide....the drug you're currently praising in this very comment for being fantastic? 

Umm...yea, complete joke. I mean I totally get it.

Scroll past it. Theres regular google like half a page down.

How many units are you taking? I gave up on Mounjaro after a week because I couldn’t handle the side effects, mainly the god awful eggy breath. Been on Reta for a a few months now and absolutely love it. Only side effect I have is lack of sleep. I go to bed late and for the life of me, can’t sleep in on this shit. But down 30lbs so I’ll suck it up!

I'm sort of in the software field. The required skill sets are just insane now. Loads of specific tools and use cases that they want. Even finding one such worker like that can be hard or impossible.

You’re not an outlier. What you’re describing is literally physically impossible. So you’re either a troll to be ignored, or you’re lying/wrong about how much you eat. Period.

I think part of the issue is there is probably some nonzero amount of people out there who experience this kind of food noise and do actually overcome it through pure willpower. It’s very difficult (I know firsthand) but not impossible. They may be convinced that everyone has similar cravings but the “good” people resist, and they are one of the good ones, when the reality is that a lot of thin people really are less hungry by nature.

Consider a plane constrained by only 2 points. It can rotate around the axis defined by those points. Then add a third point somewhere in space; rotate your plane around the axis until it hits the third point. Is there any way to move the plane now so it still hits all three points? What would happen if you tried to add a fourth point?

If you proved without a doubt that someone didn’t commit the crime after the execution would you think that is good or bad?

Newer versions of glp1s - retatrutide actually increase your base metabolic rate slightly but it's still primarily through appetite suppression

It’s less like “all the oil ran out with the noise the straw makes when you’re out of soda” and more that oil becomes progressively more expensive to extract, so the price makes people use less of it. So we probably _don’t_ run out of oil; we just stop drilling for it because what you can get for it stops making you any money. Oil producers are very good at computing when that is.

It’s so weird. It vanishes, but by day 6 it’s almost all back, just in time for another dose. 

And I’ve learned to have a lot of self control on day 6, because if I eat the way I want then the slow digestion next day will make my colon very unhappy with me.

scales are basically a sequence of notes that sound good together, kinda like a musical recipe. they help you understand how to play melodies and harmonies on the piano.

I’ve been using Firefox and DuckDuckGo for so long, I forget that 99% of people are being fed different things.

When they are side launched the rock back and forth so far the first time or two that you can see part of the bottom when it first hits the water, then part of the deck when it returns.

The waves are massive, and the noise indescribable.

Not to mention you could also just get struck by lighting just watching the flood from the top of the exposed ridge over there.

It makes me feel nauseous enough that I rarely want to actually eat anything.

Octaves are just how western music is organized.

To go a little higher than eli5, pitch is defined by the frequency of the sound waves. The main thing to know is that what we call an octave is doubling in pitch. So an A note can be 110hz, 220hz, 440hz, 880hz, etc. But 330hz is an E (almost). Each A is one octave higher than the last one. Mathematically, if the frequencies align it sounds good, if they don’t it doesn’t.

There are many more mathematical matches than the named pitches we use in western music. It’s just that using 8 notes in a scale (an octave) makes it easier to reason about which ones go together without getting overly complex.

Calories. When you're growing if you have more your body won't slow you down. I'm taller than anyone in my family because I grew up in America vs Soviet Russia.

Mag07 can also be a great tool to get things moving.

okay so all tones are vibrations of air at distinct frequencies

you can make the air vibrate by having something that vibrates at a specific frequency vibrate and resonate in the air, like a string that's tense enough that it'll vibrate 440 times per second

  
What you'll then notice is that this vibration can make other things vibrate, like another string that's tensed so that it vibrates at 220 times per second. This is called "resonance". You'll also find that this resonant frequency sounds related to the 440 times per second tone.  In music these two notes are called "octaves"

  
Turns out that the way that if you have that string vibrating powerfully enough, it'll resonate with things that vibrate at 293 ⅔ times a second and  659.26 times per second. These are called "perfect fifths and fourths" in music.

  
if you then take those other tones as starting points and find the resonant frequencies around them, you'll find more notes, and more notes still if you take those notes you just found and find them as starting points. Each of these points where things vibrate at distinct frequencies is called a "note"

  
Here's the crazy part, eventually you'll come right back to 440 times per second. 

  
Any series of notes that sounds nice that contains these notes in sequence from one octave to another is called a scale. There are all kinds of scales in the world, but most of the ones coming from euro-derived music have 7 notes in a scale, but many have just 5, while others have 11, and some have even more than that.

So you’re saying I have a chance?

Dad built ships both on ways and in drydocks. I used to watch ships slide sideways into the Mississippi and when we are kids we watched the Nimitz get built a few miles from our house.

The first time I watched a ship launch I was probably 7 years old and it was scary af. By the time I saw my last launch in my teens it had become rather exciting.

The videos I’ve seen do no justice to the in-person experience.

Octaves are a doubling of the frequency (vibrations each second).
But you can put however many notes you want in between them. Western music uses 12 and the reasoning behind this is rooted in physics and mathematics.

After the tornado passed through, we inspected some of the damage done. We saw a piece of plywood approximately 2’x2’ that had hit the outside of a house near the base and was spinning so fast that it went in about 4 inches and buzz-sawed all the way up and lodged itself just below the roof

In the center of this photo of Hamburg you can see a cruise ship in a dry dock on the Elbe River.  

-

They're just called muffins here. Context helps you distinguish between the normal ones and the cupcake ones.

Yes. I’m now taking vitamin supplements and my testosterone was low, so I’m on TRT as well.

Me too! But I've still been on it for a year and lost 70 lbs. Nauseous at least 80% of the time. I decided being nauseous and throwing up once or twice a week but losing weight is preferable to being constantly hungry while also not losing weight. Lol

i am an educator with children with severe to moderate disabilities.

most my population in the school I'm in actually are pretty skinny so i challenge this idea

Immunization tech, I have watched them on news segments during covid giving people vaccines and the amount I saw being given into the tendon...

Oh I meant other drugs, not just weight loss. It's definitely a thing.

I know your comment's gonna get lost in all the misinformation, but I wanna thank you for making it anyway. it's so frustrating to see how persistent the "fat people are just lazy and have no willpower" story continues to be despite all the scientific evidence to the contrary. people choose to believe that things are dead simple because they can't handle any complexity.

The tornado that I was talking about was in Arkansas lol. Ft. Smith 1999.

Look at it this way. When u build with concrete you use rebar to provide strength.  However if u use to much rebar there is to little binding concrete and it all falls apart.

Sing a note, any note. That sound you are making with your voice is actually made up of a few different parts that we call overtones. Sort of like how a particular color can be made from multiple different colors (blue and yellow together make green). If you pull apart those overtones, you end up with a series of notes that together can form a scale that sounds pleasing to our ears. And if you play notes from that scale in different combinations, you end up with chords. Together, these scales and chords form the building blocks we use to write all kinds of different music. Just like a particular set of colors go together well to decorate a room, so too can a set of notes and chords go together well to form a piece of music.

You might want to watch this great video:

Hell a vast group of people without intellectual issues struggle with this even when they know the long term effects

1 pen of zepbound is 4 doses (4 injections)

so imagine all the notes on a piano are like stairs/steps. each note is just the next step up from the last. now you can go up and down the stairs, you can even skip some stairs, you can even try and jump from the bottom of one flight to the bottom of the next flight (an octave). so a scale is just an arrangement of notes, like walking up and down the stairs. there are different types of scales, and it gets a lot more complicated than that, but this is how i’d explain to a 5 year old lol

You start with discovering what your TDEE is, easily done via one of the many online calculators. This tells you what you need to shoot for.

Then, you get a food scale and learn how to measure your food and calculate the calories you're about to consume, and you keep a log of it. 

Then you shoot for ~500 Calorie deficit which is a pound of fat lost per week. One should also alter their diet to avoid 'empty calories', IE foods that are largely just sugar and/or fat. Fiber should be increased as well to at least 30g a day. This will help one feel fuller and less hungry.

If you fail to adhere to the deficit, which your body weight scale is the final arbiter of because as you point out, all of the numbers are really estimates andbthey could be off, but the weight loss doesn't lie, then you add exercise.

Exercise has the double benefit of burning more calories and helping to fight hunger as it increases insulin and leptin sensitivity ehich helps you to feel less hungry, especially HIIT exercises.

If weightloss is still not achievable, add more and more until you can't, for whatever reason. If you can't add time exercising, then increase intensity until you can't anymore.

Now at this point if a deficit is still unobtainable, then one should consult a doctor for medical examination and intervention. Not many will reach this point if they follow all the steps above.

Tracy Morgan made jokes about gaining weight on that stuff.

A scale is a set of notes that are used together. They can be used to construct a melody, or played at the same time to form chords.

In western music, there's generally 12 possible notes. Most scales are *heptatonic* - seven toned - and use 7 of these notes. The C major scale uses C, D, E, F, G, A, and B in that order.

Order is important because the root note - in this case C - generally helps tell the listener "this is 'home' - we may stray from it but we will return." It's very common for C major melodies to start with a C.

The scale you use helps decide the feelings the music will produce. Major scales can feel happy and simplistic. If you use a C minor scale instead (C, D, E flat, F, G, A flat and B flat), it can feel more sad or contemplative. If you move the second note of the scale down one (trading the D for a D flat in this case) it can evoke an Eastern European/Middle Eastern vibe in the listener.

Pentatonic scales are also very common; built off of five tones instead of seven. A lot of ancient music, from Greece to China, used pentatonic scales, and it's a popular option for modern guitarists to solo in.

If your scale uses all 12 Western tones, it's called chromatic.

You also don't have to use Western tuning which divides a scale into 12 even parts; you can divided it into 7, or 34, or any number. Any subset of these notes that your song tends to rely on is a scale.

Scales are not strictly adhered to, even in older classical music. A song in C major might slip in a E flat or G flat here and there. The scale simply tells the listener which notes are expected, and which are a surprise. Maintaining the proper balance between expected notes and surprises is important in good music writing!

There are a great

I absolutely eat with my nose. But my mouth/nose get bored and it makes me what to eat something. Simply eating less at meals isn’t too hard because the first 10 bites are the best, but snacks are still a problem and 30 years of portion habits are hard to break.

There are definitions here but not a "how".

In a growing economy, money moves around in a cycle. People do work and make stuff. They get paid for their work. They use that money to buy the stuff other people make. The companies that make stuff use the money they get to try and find ways to make more stuff with the same money. Then they sell more, they can hire more people, more people have money, and so on. If the country as a whole is making and/or spending more than it did last quarter, it's growing. 

In a contracting economy, money stops moving. People still do work and make stuff. But it might not be as much stuff as usual. So they get paid less. They buy less stuff and tend to save more money. So businesses get less money and can't invest it into making more stuff. People get laid off. Projects get canceled. If the country as a whole is making and/or spending less than it did last quarter, it's contracting. Doing this 2 quarters in a row is a recession.

How does this happen? A lot of ways.

* Weird weather might cause crop shortages, which can raise food prices and make people spend less. 
* A government might decide to apply excessive and inconsistent tariffs to imports. That makes it harder to do business and make money for many industries and can cause contraction if there's no way to find domestic sources.
* A war with a country that produces a critical resource might put a strain on all industries that rely on it, making it harder to make stuff for the same price and leading to both less spending and layoffs.
* A tax structure that unfairly burdens working people might leave them with little money to spend. 
* If every company decides to drop what it's doing and invest in one other thing, they might lay off a lot of employees to create the capital to do that. Then those employees won't buy stuff, which causes bad quarters for most companies.

The economy runs on hopes and dreams. If people aren't optimistic for the future it's hard to make it grow. Nobody wants to buy a new car if they think they're at risk of being laid off. But the economy is best when people want to buy a new car *on impulse* because they can't fathom having less money tomorrow than today. If their company lays them off and says "we won't need employees anymore" they're probably going to cancel their Amazon Prime subscription and stop buying doodads every day. 

Hope is the oil in the economic engine. Fear is rust.

Besides what everyone already said, there's also a difference between an inch of rain over a day, and dowsing a plant with a couple gallons of water over 2 minutes. WHERE on a plant you water it also matters, some plants require you water them only at the base, others are fine if you dowse them from up top.

Somebody else will come along and answer this better. 

At the most basic sense, a scale is a set of notes played in order. Those notes happen sequentially in specific ways, and are defined by the "key signature" of a piece of music. 

There are many key signatures and ways to manipulate them into modes and stuff but that doesn't matter here. In a basic sense a key signature defines the notes used in a piece of music. 

The scale is just a list of those notes in sequential order. I can write a melody using A, B, C, D, E, F and G in any order I want. But the scale I'm using is still A minor. (That's a kendrick/drake joke)

**Please read this entire message before taking action.**

Thanks for participating in ELI5. This thread has been flagged as not asking for an objective explanation and been removed.  Explain Like I'm Five is for **General Concepts**, not specific problems or things an individual experiences. **Questions about your body or things you experience are never appropriate for ELI5. Questions about the human body rarely are.** Please consider another subreddit carefully before messaging the mods.

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

Keep on enjoying ELI5!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Musician here.

A scale is just a group of notes that sound good together. You can play any random order of notes from a scale and it automatically sounds like music.

Rips apart at the seam, leaving me with a mess.

It doesn’t, sound doesn’t divide into anything it’s not discrete

The hole isn’t “sucking in” light, it’s that the fabric light travels within is bent. Like drawing a straight line on a sheet of paper and then bending the paper itself. It’s still the same straight line as before, but the “straight line” points in a different direction because the thing it travels along is curved.

When you’re looking at a black hole the ring that runs along the top and bottom of it is actually *behind* the black hole. The reason you can see behind it is because the light that is shooting off from the ring is traveling in a “straight line” but, like the sheet of paper, spacetime is so warped that the “straight line” that light travels along is bent up and around towards your eyes. You see it because those light rays are pointed at your eyes.

The “hole” is the point where the bending becomes so intense that all “straight lines” lead to the same point - the singularity. To use the paper analogy, it’s the point where the curvature becomes so intense that the paper begins to roll into itself. Same straight line, but instead of being pointed at your eyes it’s all pointed inwards.

I no longer think “oh there’s a x food place on the way to y, better stop for some fries/chips/soda/etc”.

this is SO FUCKING RELATABLE.  there's a mcdonalds two seconds from my house on my way home from pretty much everywhere and it was always so goddamn hard to resist.  now i pass by and sometimes i think "maybe...??" but then i remember how unnecessarily large the portions are and how bad it will make me feel and the thought passes effortlessly.  it's incredible.

Never seen one that I have purchased

there has been enough time for earth to reach thermal equilibrium where heat going out into space and heat coming in are about equal

I mean as much as I hate insurance companies they do actually pay for some stuff occasionally and seeing as Heart Disease, Diabetes and Obesity are some of the most expensive conditions:  it seems like it would reduce what costs they do have simply by treating the root cause.

sorry to hear about the puking, but that's awesome about the smoking!  happy for you!

Don't increase your dose until your current one stops being as effective! Please believe me. I tried to stick to the dosing schedule despite already having no desire for food and ended up having the worst week of my life. Constant vomiting and diarrhea at the same time, vomiting bile when there was nothing left to vomit, extremely painful stomach cramps, etc. You WILL regret it if you listen to the dosing schedule instead of your own body.

It was also snowing in one of the videos I saw recently. So add hypothermia/cold water shock to the list of ways it can kill you.

I’m a MD/PhD endocrinologist who prescribes these drugs day in and day out. GLP-1RAs and GIPRAs have far-reaching effects on the body beyond "they make you eat less, so you lose weight." Not only do they absolutely change how people think/feel about food, there's substantial evidence that they enhance lipolysis, inhibit fat synthesis, and promote adipose browning, among many other effects.

I have many patients on these drugs who did not appreciably change their eating habits (and had food diaries/calorie trackers to show for it) after starting on them, yet still lost significant amounts of weight. Calories in and calories out are not the only variables in the weight loss equation.

I’m a MD/PhD endocrinologist who prescribes these drugs day in and day out. GLP-1RAs and GIPRAs have far-reaching effects on the body beyond "they make you eat less, so you lose weight." Not only do they absolutely change how people think/feel about food, there's substantial evidence that they enhance lipolysis, inhibit fat synthesis, and promote adipose browning, among many other effects.

I have many patients on these drugs who did not appreciably change their eating habits (and had food diaries/calorie trackers to show for it) after starting on them, yet still lost significant amounts of weight. 

Calories in and calories out are not the only variables in the weight loss equation.

I’m a MD/PhD endocrinologist who prescribes these drugs day in and day out. GLP-1RAs and GIPRAs have far-reaching effects on the body beyond "they make you eat less, so you lose weight." Not only do they absolutely change how people think/feel about food, there's substantial evidence that they enhance lipolysis, inhibit fat synthesis, and promote adipose browning, among many other effects.

I have many patients on these drugs who did not appreciably change their eating habits (and had food diaries/calorie trackers to show for it) after starting on them, yet still lost significant amounts of weight. 

Calories in and calories out are not the only variables in the weight loss equation.

I’m a MD/PhD endocrinologist who prescribes these drugs day in and day out. GLP-1RAs and GIPRAs have far-reaching effects on the body beyond "they make you eat less, so you lose weight." Not only do they absolutely change how people think/feel about food, there's substantial evidence that they enhance lipolysis, inhibit fat synthesis, and promote adipose browning, among many other effects.

I have many patients on these drugs who did not appreciably change their eating habits (and had food diaries/calorie trackers to show for it) after starting on them, yet still lost significant amounts of weight. Calories in and calories out are not the only variables in the weight loss equation.

I’m a MD/PhD endocrinologist who prescribes these drugs day in and day out. GLP-1RAs and GIPRAs have far-reaching effects on the body beyond "they make you eat less, so you lose weight." Not only do they absolutely change how people think/feel about food, there's substantial evidence that they enhance lipolysis, inhibit fat synthesis, and promote adipose browning, among many other effects.

I have many patients on these drugs who did not appreciably change their eating habits (and had food diaries/calorie trackers to show for it) after starting on them, yet still lost significant amounts of weight. Calories in and calories out are not the only variables in the weight loss equation.

That would be the death of reddit.

Finally something you can talk about and you slam down an encyclopedia. What a champ.

It's insane in Australia too, not covered by our universal healthcare. I pay $550 AUD a month for Mounjaro, and I get $80 AUD back from my private health insurance. Well, I *would* be paying that if I could afford it. Right now I'm pinning my hopes on some clinical trials that are in phase 3 of trying a new GLP medication, hoping I meet their eligibility criteria. I figure even if I get a placebo it's still better than nothing!

It doesn’t. There are many more tones than 8 in an octave.

And it has itty bitty Tom Holland. I did the math and he had to have been at least 13-14, but damn if he didn't play a convincing 10 (although I have no idea how old his character was supposed to be)

I also want to know this.  And why octaves?  Why does sound natural divide into 8 parts?

Heat acclimatization is several different changes.  It lowers your body's core temperature, dilates blood vessels to increase flow of heat from your core, and increases the amount of plasma for better blood flow (which also lowers your heart rate).  

Heat acclimatization also increases production of aldosterone to make your body retain more sodium, so you don't lose as much sodium from the extra sweating (unacclimated you can lose as much as 30g/day, after acclimatization it drops to several grams a day).  In other words, you sweat more, but your sweat has less salt per ounce in it.

There's also something called "heat shock proteins" that your body produces to help protect your cells, but I have no clue how that works or what it does.

You can kick your body into heat acclimatization (or the opposite, for cold) by spending 2 hours out in the heat, 2-3 days a week, for a couple weeks.  Take it slow and easy, and take it easy on physical exertion early on.  You don't need to be hot all the time.  A doctor I spoke to about this told me "work out in heat, sleep in cold", so use your AC to get a good night's rest.

Your hypothalamus regulates this stuff, and it goes mostly by blood temperature (also by skin nerve endings sensing heat/cold), and blood temperature is affected by the air you breathe, so you can be bundled up pretty well in the winter, and still get cold acclimatization.  I would assume the same is true for heat acclimatization, but obviously the way you dress doesn't have as much direct impact on that.

[](

I've tried to read up on both heat and cold acclimatization, but most of what I could find is about elite athletes (some *very* interesting stuff but not practically useful to me) and very deep science that I can't follow.

That second one is Cameron Todd Willingham:

You’re saying it all right here. 

I also have a “eh. You better stop” message my brain sends, so I’ve never really ever had to worry about the literal garbage I will eat.

Yeah, there's "separating with a butter knife" and "clean slice done by a machine designed for it". Even using a bread knife at home on a bagel/english muffin produces "not quite smooth" sides, depending on the sharpness of the knife and skill of the cutter.

Since the topic is "why don't they slice them all they way through?" I'm assuming these unhinged people actually *want* a completely smooth english muffin. I mean, anyone who wanted one that way has to be unhinged, right?

In the US, when they're talking about unemployment, they're only counting people actively looking for a job. If there are people who don't have jobs and aren't looking, they're not counted. So it's entirely possible for "unemployment to be down" while there are more unemployed.

In fact telling people to Google things is against the rules.

If you go through a sketchy telehealth provider like hims, etc they usually don't verify what you tell them. You can just say you're overweight and they won't check.

Isn’t it the beach suddenly turning into a river?

this is when you sabotage yourself to make your numbers worse to get it prescribed.

It can also slow digestion to a complete stop.  I was given monjaro for my diabetes.   Took it Friday night.   Saturday had a sausage egg and cheese sandwich for breakfast.   Didn't eat anything till I threw it up on Tuesday completely undigested.   A week with a tube shoved up your nose, scratching the back of your throat and making breathing unbearable,  just to suck out stomach acids in hope that everything restarts.  They never explain the chances of this horrible side effect

Most families who are making their kids do child labor aren't doing it because they can afford all the food they want. And in any case, child labor definitely isn't going to *help* you get taller - height is determined by a combination of genetics and your body's available resources. Working certainly won't change your genetics, nor will it help you build up your body's resources for growth. At *best*, there are scenarios where it would have no impact on height.

Yeah, it sounds impossible to be addicted to exercise, but if you're the type of person who needs to "have a thing", exercise is literally the best "thing" to get addicted to! I go through phases of addictions, thankfully alcohol is in my past forever, and exercise is huge in terms of scratching that itch. 

I have a pull up bar mounted in my bathroom door frame and weights on the floor of my living room so there's never an excuse not to just bust out a few reps.

So basically a construction site where they build a building that is then later going to float. Large ships really are floating buildings.

Oops its actually 2.4mg and I think they have a 7mg one coming out next

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Joke-only comments, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

I'm down 30 pounds! It would be more but for some reason my right arm has massively bulked up... [j/k]

Except in the US, it's up to the prosecution to prove that a given defendant is guilty.

They build it in fresh water and add lots of salt when it’s finished. Salt water is more buoyant than fresh water, this floating the huge ship.
(Not)

You see when a mommy and daddy cruise ship love each other very much....

Add " -ai " and you can disable (in theory)

There is very low statistical correlation between dark triad traits (one of which is narcissism) between children that have it and adults that have it.

I’m due for a dose on Friday and I’ve felt so fatigued. Is that something you experience with low blood sugar? I had a latte with caramel and felt much better after.

Grateful for folks like you being out there

Might be more of a “pulping”, “grinding”, or “liquifying” action depending on what’s being carried along in the rising tide that engulfs you

I mean that's kinda assuming you don't have enough food.

Despite the pile on below, this is the correct answer, many large ships are assembled and repaired in dry dock.

Liked the slipway video. Some of these ships are at such a scale that it's a little hard to comprehend the relative size. Like goddamn.

C;mon - tell me you didn't have a quick chuckle out of it as you were (rightfully) removing it!  😉

I will behave better.

Yes I am on semaglutide and pay 99 a month plus $150 for Ro’s service. It’s pricey but I used to eat out/order food way too much and buy a scone almost every morning on the way to the train. I cut back so much on ordering and eating out that it’s definitely just exchanging that budget.

This whole thread is kind of crazy.  I'm almost 50, and for my entire life I've always used a butter knife to open English muffins.  Never have I ever ended up with a smooth surface.  It's always had all the nooks and crannies. The nooks and crannies are the result of the internal structure of the dough as it cooks, and I don't think it's even possible to end up with 2 halves without them.

I also wonder if everyone is kind of talking about the same thing but just not explaining it well.  When I say I use a knife, what I mean is that I poke through the edges, then loosely run the knife around and kind of pry the muffin apart.

I don't think they mean exercise, I think they mean grueling child labor. Which, yea, absolutely saps the energy your body would otherwise be able to use for growing.

Some ships are build in a dry dock that has walls around it. Once complete, they can flood the dry dock, open one wall and the ship leaves with tug boats and it's own motors.

Some ships are built on or next to ramps. When the ship is complete cables are pulled and blocks are removed allowing the shop to roll down the ramp and into the water.

I live in US, my health ins pays 100% out of pocket for my Zepbound GLP1 meds…. I am not diabetic, but I have high blood pressure, so keeping my weight down helps…. Hated being fat my whole life. Now I’m back to being sexy af 😎

I did it aggressively.

I find it extremely disrespectful that certain individuals feel the need to replacehuman to human conversations with typing and reading on Google.

A lot of questions on here can be answered by Google. But this is way more fun to discuss it amongst friends. Besides, where else would you get people being 100% confident AND 100% wrong?

My Wegovy monthly supply in the US is US$175. The medical insurance won't pay for prescriptions for it anymore (Blue Cross) but the prescription plan I have through work drops it down to 175. Not great, but far from the "billionaires drug" is used to be thought of as. Fun fact, 1 in 8 adult Americans are using it now according to the manufacturer. 

Betting the prescription plan stops covering it when they find out it's super easy to get prescriptions for it outside of the main insurance carrier. I use GoodRX for the prescription.

North Korea recently launched a warship and it subsequently capsized and then started to sink. In front of their grand Pooh Bear.

no they're talking about damage to the 'other cars' in the case that the car is boxed in or parallel parked closely

CICO will always work - however, people who think that “thermodynamics” is the primary driver of weight loss are just ignorant. 

The body has several redundant systems designed to keep you from *starving to death*, any one of which is extremely effective at preserving body mass, all by itself. 

Trigger them in combination, they make losing weight and especially unpleasant version of hell - and that’s assuming that you are metabolically healthy. 

I have no thyroid, and  I lost my meds while traveling, so I missed for 3 days getting it sorted out - and omfg, I was hungry in a way that I am certain none of these idiots never have been. Constantly, and mercilessly - and that is after 48 hours.

You can disable it by not using Google and using a different search engine instead…. 🫠

But you can't get the kind of snark from Google you can get here.

Millions and millions are obese. We live in a capitalist hellscape. You should really be suspicious of any personal responsibility argument given that context.

Either a dry dock, where it is flooded and the ship floats out, or built on land and it is run down a slip way in to water.

 (Slipway)

 (Dry Dock flooding)

That’s the difference. Alcohol is physically addictive but food is, at worst, only mentally addictive.

I mean... You've had dreams right?

It's like that but while awake.

But the habit to constantly eat is conditioned.

Hearing isn't.

it would really suck to be duct tape guy on the lower decks. ill be duct tape guy on the lido deck.

In the UK, the royal family exclusively use 'hw' pronunciation.

Who let the boat out 🎵

And is cumulatively catastrophic for the environment.

A Tsunami isn’t a big wave like people seem to picture. It’s more like the tide has suddenly jumped up 6 feet in 5 seconds and is now flooding everything. The impact will knock you underwater the water and debris in it will kill you.

They build them with a bathtub that is below the water level. Then when they finish building they just open the door and let the water flood in

I'm not clicking the link cuz I don't need a strong dose of sad after a long day...but if this is the one I'm thinking about, where they show the one guy who just stands on the beach too shocked to even try and escape his fate....

Holy fuck was that a terrible tragedy.

to be fair that AI answer that always pops up when you search anymore that you can't disable gets so much wrong.

Did you dry dock it, though?

They switched to flexseal after the Titanic Disaster

That’s true but I assume you’re also saving on food every month as well

They build them in dry docks and then flood them when they’re done building it.

If you're talking about Wegovy, it's 2.4 mg, not 2.5

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Anecdotes, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

Thanks, pal. Needed something unique from all my other handles.

I mean yall are always in an uproar about Americans causing medication shortages, prolly best they stay where they are.

I take one and 100% have not seen any reduction in nicotine use. I still vape like a fiend.

I had a failed first one and they though IBS might be the culprit so on top of the two-day prep (fairly normal for people who've had trouble before) I got a bonus five days of miralax to ensure there were no hard poops stuck in there.

I downvoted, but I did it real gentle

I realize your question has been answered, but I gotta say I don't think there's a crane big enough to lift a cruise ship.

I took her facial response, to be fake Nikki’s. Just show that she wasn’t really infatuated with him, none of it was real for either of them but both of them were locked into it via some voodoo bullshit. 

Everyone had to live through their own personal hell. Bear and Nikki included. 

I don’t see Nikki as the villain in anyway, I specifically don’t see a villain in this movie. I see a lot of victims who lash out and do potentially bad shit because they are victims.

You either change your behavior or get extremely sick. Overeat on these shots and you get super nauseous.

Ah, hyperbole at it's finest - equating driving school with the death penalty or life imprisonment. People who shoplift don't just get tickets, either. Just because we don't do something doesn't mean it won't be beneficial.

It's only a massive issue because as it stands now, there's a lot of illegal driving going on that is largely *unenforced*. Actually enforcing it would cause most of the same issues you say my position would cause.

If traffic can't flow properly without people breaking the law, then city planning needs to be contacted to deal with it. I'm not exactly sure why you're complaining to me about it. If people pausing for an extra second or two really would cause traffic to be "back up traffic into the next town", there's greater issues at play and it's way past the point of needing addressed. Or the cities are *really* close together.

Dude, hunter gatherers most likely didn't have to deal with raiders as they had very few possessions. 

Once agrarian and pastoral life styles became common, people had to worry about raiders, rustlers *and* the things that go bump in the night ( ie predation their livestock)

I wonder if less physical work is a + or - here. 

More sleep and food definitely.

Same reason I was put on one. Started to get near diabetes levels, put on one, and now blood sugar levels are rock solid.

**Please read this entire message before taking action.**

Your thread has been removed for requesting a “how to” or instructional.  Please familiarize yourself with the rules, and try a how to related subreddit. 

Good luck!

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It’s literally a Google question. Copy paste into google and you’ll have better answers than anything here

This is kinda funny to me, because I've also been on anti-depressants that had the side effect of weight gain through increased appetite (mirtazapine). I don't think I gained a single pound and I was on them for almost a year. And I also struggle with eating enough because my body massively complains when I overeat.

They are typically built in what is called a dry dock.  Essentially this is an area that is next to/in the water but sealed off from it.  Construction occurs without the water present, various temporary supports are used to keep the boat/ship in the right position.  When construction is finished or at least reaches a certain point, water is allowed in.  When the ship is ready doors are opened or walls are removed to connect the dry dock to the adjacent water area and the boat/ship is moved out either under its own power or using tugs or cranes or other methods until it can get under its own power.  Then the dry dock is closed again and water removed so the next ship can be built.

They’re built in drydocks. There are several different forms, but the most classic type is a graving dock. Imagine a concrete basin below water level, with a gate on one side. When a ship is done, you open the gate, it fills with water, and the ship sails out on its own. You then close the gate, pump out all the water, and it’s ready for the next one. It’s also how ships undergo below water maintenance.

They didn't switch to FlexSeal?

They build them in dry docks. These are big boxes that abut against the water. They can be flooded when construction is finished for the ship to float out. 

Large scale construction of the ship is done with materials that are carried in and loaded into the dry dock. This can use a crane. 

For things like cruise ships whole sections can be prefabricated somewhere else and then trucked over and craned into place. 

Often times after the ship is built all the furnishings still aren’t installed and the ship is floated out to water and finishing is continued.

For really big ships, they are usually built, repaired in a massive water tight basin with huge gates connected to a body of water,  where the water can be pumped in or out.

For a new build they’ll assemble it, then float it by pumping water in, then open the big gates and the boat sails out.

"He realized he was trapped"

But he passed up any ostensible opportunity he had to get himself out of the trap. The voice on the phone asked him if he wanted to modify or cancel the wish, and his first choice was to just modify it. He knew that Nikki wasn't into it, but still wanted some "possessed" version of her that wasn't so volatile.

"If he had to endure the abuse, he might as well get something out of it"

Yikes. Did you see the way her face and body appeared while he was practically raping her? She wasn't into it. The real Nikki was very clearly still in there and wanted no part of it. I don't care how much I'm being abused, that was very clearly a woman who did not want to take part, and no amount of abuse or being "trapped" would make me want to do that to someone

"He eventually decided to do the right thing"

He didn't, though. He took the pills but almost immediately started trying to throw them up to back out of the "right choice" that he had made. He was only stopped from throwing them up because Freaky Nikki made a wish that he would love her back.

Look up launching a ship on YouTube. They use airbags or rollers or some other mechanism like that to slide the ships into the water. From what I understand, using cranes would work for smaller boats but not for giant cruise or container ships.

They build it in a dry dock then flood it when it's done

They also prepare several rolls of duct tape, in case of leaks. Fact.

I appreciate this! I have used naltrexone in the past but it stopped being effective for me. Then I experimented with Nal and Wellbutrin which worked for a bit and then, again, ceased to be affective. 

Looking forward to exploring this sub to see if there are other strategies to make these meds work more consistently. Thanks!

Sometimes they flood a drydock like others suggested, sometimes it rolls on logs and tubes into the water. Sometimes they just push it off the side of the dock and it falls in.

To add on, chili is a fruit too and chili plants evolved capsaicin (the compound that produce the spicy burning sensation) to deter mammals from eating their fruit as we chew and destroy the seeds. Birds on the other hand do not chew and destroy the seeds, which allows for effective dispersal of seeds. And birds do not feel the burn of capsaicin.

Earthquakes used to be really rare here in Kansas.  Dammit, Oklahoma.

It was also my understanding that she wasn’t possessed. Whatever that was it wasn’t Nikki and Nikki wasn’t anywhere in there. 

She could come back when the wish wasn’t in effect. But it wasn’t like she was watching everything from the inside. Nikki stopped existing the second he snapped the twig.

This is the equivalent I use when people ask me if i'll be on it the rest of my life. If \*my\* body needs this to be healthy, then yes.

They slide it into the water from the shore! 

Here's a compalation of how ships are launched!

They build them in large dry docks near the water and slide them into the water on large ramps when theyre able to float. 

Here is a YouTube Short of it happening.

They build on land in a special dry bearth/dock. Depending on the set up they can either flood the construction zone or slide it into the water after completion. Google ship launch videos, they are pretty fun to watch

Idk man, I’m just saying what I saw and how i interpreted it.

It's called a "dry dock." It's essentially a big bath tub shaped structure that they can build the boat in and then sink the tub once the boat is built and it can then move on out.

Here's a pic of one in action with a cruise ship.

Congratulations, that's an impressive accomplishment! Way to go!!

None that I’ve noticed. 

I delayed filling the prescription for a month or two out of concern about some of the more serious side effects, but then I came across Hank Green’s video. The rarity of the more serious side effects, combined with the more positive potential side effects (Lower chance of cancer? Yes, please!) allayed my concerns. I started taking my blood pressure med in the morning instead of at night to mitigate that risk, and filled the prescription.

They build them right next to large body of water. When they are done they flood the area where the boat is built and it can be tugged right on out.

They use something called a dry dock. It's a big space below the water level that can be closed off and then the water inside pumped out. The ship is built in the drydock, then when it is ready, they fill up the water and open the gates to let the boat out.

One way is to build in a dry dock, then flood it and pull the ship out onto the ocean

Growing up I knew a girl who would certainly qualify!

You do not. Because you're not at all qualified to diagnose things. 

There are many reasons. Kids by nature are "narcissistic" and kids are still developing. People try out things, move through developmental phases, react to things. 

It's not as if childhood behaviour, actions, are not taken into account with diagnoses of personality disorders and the like, they are, but that doesn't mean it's a done deal, same as a tantrum-pitching toddler who gets mad and bites people is diagnosable bc of those things that are developmentally appropriate, if not universal.

So, in my opinion Bear becomes the villain after he knows Nikki is not actually in control, and just keeps on going because he's obsessed with her. At first, he doesn't believe it, and he doesn't realise what's happening to Nikki, but that phone call confirms to him that Nikki is not who he is dating. He literally sees her stab herself in the face and he just wants her to be normal, no matter what. 

He made the wish and those were his consequences, but he didn't have the will to do anything about it until it was too late. He is the villain because he willingly takes advantage of Wish Nikki, and doesn't care about the will of the real Nikki. She literally begs him to kill her and he makes it about him...

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Discussion of fiction, gaming, fantasy, etc. are not allowed on ELI5 (Rule 2).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

ohmigawd I friggin' love your usahname, christ buddy

He tries to cancel it, and eventually does the “right thing” in the end. 

I feel like a big disconnect from me is seeing the wish as a form of manipulation.

Wow this speaks volumes for your lack of character. wtf is wrong with some people? Anyone sees that movie with a shred of empathy would know that bear is a pathetic psychopath

I honestly didn’t look at the movie from that perspective in the first place. I didn’t see the wish at the form of coercion, at least not in intent. It becomes one when the wish doesn’t turn out the way that he intended for it too. At which point he’s a victim to his own wish and he has to live in the mess he created.

A lot of tow trucks I've seen for those kind of situations - and even some of the ones for situations where the owner is fully cooperating (eg. accident / breakdown rescue) - seem to just lift the entire car onto the back of a truck.

Check out r/Sinclairmethod

I mean, the way I took most of the movie. Especially bear’s actions. Was that he realized he was trapped, and that he just had to learn to live in the mess that he made. He was still sleeping with Nikki because if he had to endure the abuse, he might as well get something out of it. He couldn’t kill Nikki because he’d go to jail, even if that might’ve been the right thing to do. He eventually decided to do the right thing in the end after he’d gotten in way too deep

I pay like $40 per pay check, and it covers just about everything.

I watched it a few days ago. My takeaway was that we were supposed to feel sorry for Bear at the start, and then as the movie progresses we come to realize he's the bad guy as he's basically got this girl totally possessed against her will (whether it's a demonic possession or something else, it's not made totally clear) because he was too much of a whimp to confess his feelings and tell her he likes her.

Technically you could do it via surgery to physically take out the fat, or some kind of fat eating parasite or something, but not the most practical lol

I watched the movie for a second time today, and I could really see how Ian was trying to sabotage Bear at every turn, and then how subtly angry he was when Bear was talking to him about Nikki.

Well i agree.  I definirely think its much better to get there with diet and exercise alone but as it stands despite being the ideal solution its not doing nearly as good.

Calorie deficit is literally the way all weight loss happens. How you get to deficit and the difficulty of achieving that changes method to method, but it always comes down to calorie deficit. 

Diets lower your intake or make it easier to eat less, exercising makes you burn more calories, glp1s lower appetite so eating less is easier, etc. 

The insulin interactions for non diabetic people just make sticking to a diet way, way easier and not a constant battle that people often end up losing. 

I personally am on trizepatide but have lost weight many, many times over the years eating a similar diet to what I do on trizepatide, this is just 50x easier to stay on the plan.

Aside from what others have already said; the other factor they are very likely taking into account is the possibility of Munchausen-by-proxy from the parents.

If you think mind controlling a woman to get her to do things she didn't want to do, you are aligned with incel ideologies.

Do you think a person can consent when drunk or under the influence of drugs? Does a person consent when held at gunpoint? 

I'd suggest you think if it this way -- if a man larger and more powerful than you altered your ability to consent, and then had sex with you against your will, how would you feel.

Which is funny because Chinese peptides are cheap.  Just an American health care money grab

Using exterior forces to influence someone's decisions/desires without their consent is evil. A crime of omission is still a crime. The whole time he was fucking her, she wasn't THERE. It's exemplified in Nicky's response that she wasn't "there" when they had any physical intimacy.

Not to mention that his wish directly resulted in the death of his friends, with all the factors combined, Bear's absolutely the villain.

Sure, but doesn’t he find out beyond a shadow of a doubt what his wish entailed and then proceeded not to do anything to remedy the situation?

When people expect that future to be better than the present, they spend more money because they expect more money to be available to them soon. If they expect the future to be worse than the present, they save money instead. As an economy starts to slow businesses stop expanding operations, new enterprises become less common, and that puts pressure on financial markets and job markets. It becomes self reinforcing.

if you really think that then you need to do a lot of work on yourself

If you're using the mass energy equation here it would be impossible to gain weight

The initial wish isn't necessarily what makes him a villain. It's likely that he didn't even know that it would work.

It's everything he does after he realizes that his wish was cursed and that something is very wrong that makes him a villain. She is obviously not enthusiastic or emotionally present for sex, but he continues anyway because he just wants to fuck her body. The "real" Nikki pleads with him to kill her because she can't control her own body or actions, and his response is to get defensive as if she were attacking his character, and he continues with the "relationship." After finding out that Nikki is, on some level, "possessed" and not actually in control of her body, he still asks the mysterious man on the phone to simply modify the wish instead of cancelling it entirely.

He knew that Nikki wasn't actually in control of her body or her actions, but kept her in their forced "relationship" anyway.

Something to consider with the Dollar you have cents Japan just has yen so say something cost 100 yen or one dollar a more accurate way to put it would be the item cost 100 yen or 100 cents

They just started selling the generic version of the drug in Canada due to the patent lapse.  

This will eventually lead to those versions being sold worldwide with Canada being the hub.

Willpower is a simplistic idea when comparing across different people with different biological drives or baselines for feeling unbothered. I have great willpower over habitually spending $5 on a coffee, because I don't get the same thing out of the experience as other people. I've never raped anyone, but to be fair I've never been that horney. ect...

I've lost weight on Ozempic because I no longer eat something to feel normal. And all of a sudden apples tasted way better than sugar laden processed foods. Anyone saying a glp-1 medication is just for people without willpower gets an eye role.

he’s a rapist , she never consented to being in a relationship with him or consented to have* sex with him . he made his wish and did what he wanted to her

The justice system isn’t perfect; and doesn’t always get it right. 

Before we allow a government to kill a civilian in cold blood, we give that citizen every chance possible to prove their innocence, or heck, even just that the case against them doesn’t meet the threshold for ghe death penalty. 

And as a closing statement - capital punishment is morally and economically indefensible and should be abolished.

If you need a person, specifically the cashier who sold him the Willow. However, I don’t actually see a villain in the film, I see a bunch of victims to a horrible situation

Bear enslaved her. There were several points where it was shown that he knew she was being horrendously tortured. He didn’t back down even after that. 

There are two very clear examples that show Bear is a villain. There are way more but these two are inarguable. 

- When he calls the hotline and requests that the wish be altered, but not canceled. He wants the weirdness to end, not the enslavement. He’s perfectly fine with the whole rape of it all, not that she isn’t acting like his dream girl. 

- When Nikki manages to speak while the Entity that controls her body is asleep. Nikki begs him to just kill her. Whatever she’s experiencing in the void is so bad she just wants it all to be over. Bear’s only response is “what’s so bad about being with me?” Then he just leaves. 

Those two are very clear examples of Bear being the villain. It doesn’t even get into the many other examples. Such as all of the times he rapes her, including the rape scene right after he confronts her about the lies and weirdness. She tells him in the restaurant it’s a lie, but he still has sex with her. Bear is a rapist. He’s a narcissist. He never truly cared about Nikki as a person, only the Nikki he placed on a pedestal.

It’s like not though? I have a partner, I’m definitely not a incel. 

All I saw from the movie with somebody desperate to be loved, who got in way over his head because he didn’t understand what he was doing

I mean, she didn’t like him romantically, and he used a magic wish to make her like him romantically. You could make arguments about him not intending it to be the hell it turns out to be but it all started because he used magic to make her love him when she didn’t.

Ice cream shall contain at least 1.6 pounds of total solids to the gallon, weigh not less than 4.5 pounds to the gallon, and contain not less than 20 percent total milk solids, constituted of not less than 10 percent milkfat. 

There is the definition of ice cream by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Lol I just made a post today on a different social media about how ppl that didnt immediately realize this before the movie even came out they aren't the sharpest tool in the shed

impact is more important than intent

I think it’s his friend. The movie starts with his friend basically coercing him into practicing a confession for a woman he’s actively fucking, and when given the chance to fix everything ignores his best friend to wish for money, and is proud of it afterwards.

This is incel bs. Can we delete this post?

Who would you name as the villain?

When the real Nikki begs Bear to kill her, instead of being horrified that his friend is being used as a meat puppet by some outside entity caused by his wish, his first reaction is to complain that she'd rather die than be with him. Bear then walks away from his very obviously deeply distressed friend who he said mattered oh so much to him because he doesn't want to deal with it.

If after that point you still have sympathy for him, you are missing the point of the movie.

You feel less of the desire to eat even when stressed/bored.

As someone who smokes weed a lot even when I have munchies I can't eat as much.

Just helps you maintain control easier. 

It's really nice tbh.

I wouldn’t say he intentionally mind controlled her. It seems to me like his intentions was to just change reality ie. A reality where she had feelings for him organically, rather than under some sort of duress like what the wish provided.

He took away her free will. She was in “the sunken place” essentially (like from “Get Out”)

“The American healthcare system is a fucking joke” 
 And a bad one, at that!

Yes but the main issue is the corners due to the reduced downforce, and driving in dirty air is also harder on the tires so it's a bit of a compounding problem.

If you don't want to believe McDonald's own propaganda, go for it.

Actually appetite suppression through the process of being full, meaning food digestion slows down and takes longer to leave stomach…….

I haven’t seen the movie, but is it not true he intentionally mind-controls a girl who has to experience all of it and begs for death during moments of lucidity?

Sure, so is shooting 'em. There's a reason we don't give life sentences to people caught shoplifting. 

Deterring people from a minor thing that happens to be illegal by causing massive other issues isn't an improvement. And you conveniently ignored my point about intersections not working properly without a certain amount of flow and all that.

He stole her autonomy. He was too chicken-shit to just ask her out so instead he rewrote her personality

German is already a very descriptive language, I wonder if that's why

This is the answer, you will basically be in a giant high speed washing machine full of sharp and heavy debris.

I don't know that this would defuse the 'willpower' narrative, though. People are capable of some pretty impressive feats of willpower when they really are 100% focused on that one thing.

It's easy to imagine being dehydrated in a desert surrounded by dry crackers and just resisting drinking a sip of water, if you imagine you're, say, on a game show where you win ten million dollars if you can hold out long enough, and there's nothing else going on the whole time than just you and that bottle of water you're resisting.

It's a lot harder to imagine doing that *and* your normal job all day *and* being decent to your friends and family, some of whom will have water with them and be drinking it in front of you while you suffer in that desert, and being stuck like that for *months.*

Haha, I get a very similar effect from my ADHD meds and I've always described it as the hunger going from a fire alarm siren to a polite email chime.

When the only store in your neighborhood is a dollar general and all they sell is ultra palatable processed foods there is a systemic component. 

I am not saying over weight people are absolved of all actions but what I am saying is the obesity rate 60 years ago was way lower and there were a number of reasons for that.

100% it slows everything down. My doctor recommended Metamucil if it gets to be too much. TMI- I always know when my medication is wearing off.

Less air resistance 

That's part of the less grip & handling 

Going fast in a straight line is easy 

Going fast whilst cornering, not so much

Once I have adjusted to a dose I can eat a little bit of junk without it messing me up, but the best part is I can also just eat a little bit of junk and then actually stop. I put away half of a single scoop of Culver's custard last night.

empathy noun
 /ˈempəθi/
 /ˈempəθi/
[uncountable]
​the ability to understand another person’s feelings, experience, etc.
 empathy (with somebody/something) the writer’s imaginative empathy with his subject
 empathy (for somebody/something) empathy for other people’s situations
 empathy (between A and B) The empathy between the two women was obvious.

I have a whole rant about ADHD meds, but the tldr is that we don't actually have good evidence that they're addictive. We just haven't proven that they're *not* addictive, and since they're chemically in the same family as stimulants that people abuse recreationally, they get a "this may be addictive!" black box warning. But when you look at actual study data about people who are misusing ADHD meds, the vast majority of them are college students who take them as a study aid, don't report taking any other drugs besides alcohol and marijuana, and don't report any symptoms of addiction or dependence. Among people with ADHD who misuse their *own* meds, the strongest predictor of misuse is a high severity of inattentive symptoms — that is to say, people take higher doses than prescribed when the dose they're prescribed *isn't enough to help them*. Getting on a stable regimen of stimulants actually makes people with ADHD far *less* likely to develop a substance use disorder.

(Also, I don't know if you personally have ADHD, but overeating is a symptom of that too! Stimulants often quiet "food noise" for people with ADHD in the exact same way that GLP-1s do for people with diabetes. It was mind-blowing for me when I started taking Vyvanse and realized that my overeating *wasn't* a question of willpower, I was just wildly out-of-touch with my body's hunger and fullness signals.)

You mean the bank's property? Once a repo is ordered, car driver's ownership has already legally ended from court filings. The bank is simply taking their property back.

But does drafting behind other cars not let you go faster? Because they are cutting the air for you

I think you'll find that not calling disabled people slurs and being cruel about their weight is like the definition of being empathetic my friend!

Seven days is crazy.  I’ve only had to do 24 hour prep for both of mine. (Just the gallon of drink type)

Dude it takes way longer than they.

Why does drafting increase speed when behind a car then?

Because 25mg is the therapeutic dose, you are titrating up to it. If they are losing 5lbs per month, there is definitely room for improvement (though I'd be happy with 5lbs per month). I repeated a month (of 4mg) and ended up stalling out part of the way through the month. I didn't gain any weight, but I'm also not spending $150/month to lose less than 2lbs.

There are programs you can join specifically for weight loss that will prescribe the medication if you need it. I only have experience with two but there are more. Form Health and Mayo both have a weight loss program like this. My insurance stopped covering Form in January when Mayo opened their program.

You used to see them everywhere. Then screening for Down’s syndrome very early in pregnancy became widely available.

Depending on where you are, between 60-85% of all Down syndrome embryos are terminated. The more educated and wealthy you are, the more likely it is that you will know that your baby has it, understand the ramifications for your life, and also understand how it will affect your finances and your marriage and your social life and you are more likely to go “eh, it’s early days” and just end it and try again. 

The hold outs are the undereducated and the super religious. 

The other reason you don’t see very many is that they tend to socialize with other families who are living with Down syndrome kids. Less stigma, less judgement. 

If you want to know where all the Down’s syndrome kids are, just go attend services at Catholic, Pentecostal, Baptist churches. Or go to section 8 housing and low income housing areas. They are still around, but it’s a very hard life and they need help. Churches and government aid provide some of that help, but it’s barely enough to make ends meet.

Estimated need for finances for a family with a disabled child are between 18-28% extra money than a typical family has. That’s just to pay bills, no extras.

Some Scandinavian countries have the rate for Down syndrome kids well under 1%.

This makes me think of the need for trained tradesmen.

Yes exactly. Now if I ever crave fried foods I have a bite or two and then my brain immediately recognizes that I don't find pleasure in it anymore and I won't take another bite

Your description of weird poop and constant burps is not universal. I have perfectly normal poop and no more burps than I had before.

I've read that natural GLP1 gets eliminated from  circulation within minutes while synthetic GLP1 hangs around for a week.

The "strategic decision" bullshit is just Novo Nordisk attempting to save face. If they'd paid their fees, the patent would have been good until 2032, like in the US. An estimate back in March put the number of Canadians on GLP-1 inhibitors at around 3 million, and semaglutide is the most popular one. Most drug plans in Canada will only pay for the generic version if one is available, so generics coming in six years early is going to cost them tens of billions of dollars.

Many overweight and obese people are, however, *literally* victims, of  physical and sexual abuse.

We have no evidence that scolding overweight people helps to reduce their body size, but we do have strong evidence that GLP1 drugs can lead to weight loss. There's also strong evidence that the health improvements associated with weight loss make people feel better and increase their self-esteem. Feeling well and having high self-esteem are both associated with a stronger likelihood of healthy choices.

It sucks!! However, skipped breakfast today, and just did a kettlebell workout i found on IG since my gym was closed. 

Made myself take a walk beforehand. 

I wrote my weight in big ass letters and taped it to my fridge. 

Gotta keep trying!

For some cancers you do. My grandpa was on androgen blockers for over a decade for his aggressive prostate cancer. But most cancers are an acute disease, not a chronic one. 

Obesity is more like diabetes, asthma, and hypertension. A chronic disease that requires chronic treatment to manage.

How are you getting calorie deficit isnt the main mechanism for weight loss.

Get her some vegetables or husk fiber and eat that before her meals, pair it with protein and fat and she wont need those expensive drugs.

I’m at $130 for compounded Tirz with B6 added. I’m still on a low dose though so I expect the price to go up some since I’ll need more per month.

I had to see a hematologist for 3 years for high white blood count. He didn’t know why I had it, but I did. 

My cholesterol was high, my creatinine was high, my GFR was low, my CRP was high. 

All of them went to normal levels after I started semaglutide and have stayed in normal range as I’ve stayed on semaglutide. Nobody knows why. They just say I had some kind of inflammatory metabolic process that has been tamped down by semaglutide. 

For people wh9 say, “But you’ll have to take it for the rest of your life!!!“ 

So what? 

I take arthritis medication and blood pressure medication for the rest of my life. Millions of people take cholesterol medication for the rest of their lives and there’s no proof that cholesterol medication prevents heart attack. People take insulin, anti inflammatories, depression medication, ADHD medication, boner pills.

Nobody screams that they’re “cheating“ or demands that insurance not pay for it. 

I’m taking a medication that has proved, by my lab tests, to correct metabolic problems.

So what?

would save a ton of money paying for other stuff related to obesity

That assumes they're paying for it in the first place and not just weasling out of paying for that entirely either. Why spend money to save money when you can just not spend money.

I think it’s an AI glitching

Getting dropped by the tornado that previously lifted you is not going to help either.

That sucks that you have to make that decision.

Ozempic managed my blood sugar fantastically.

It also kills your apatite after eating.  So now I have to plan and be careful what I eat because that will likely be the only meal I eat all day.

Sure, but you dont keep taking chemo once the tumors are gone, so I was wondering what this drug cycle looks like.

Okay let me restate that: overweight and obese people are not victims of corporate oppression.

Right?! I love being able to afford to take care of myself. Compounded Tirz for the win!

Overweight and obese people get to think and say whatever they want, just like you. There's no maximum body weight for being allowed to form one's own opinions.

For grey products you definitely need because you have no idea what you’re really buying, but compounding pharmacies will send you the reports if you ask for them. 503b compounded pharmacies also have to go through the FDA approval of their pharmacy so it’s not being cobbled together in someone’s bathtub like grey may be.

My partner's biggest food issue is food noise.  She has none on tirzepatide.

I agree that it is important to feel that weight. It would be nice if more people thought that way.

Imagine you take two points to make a line, and put a third point anywhere else in space that is not on that line. Now make a plane that the line sits on. It doesn’t matter if that plane crosses through the third point yet. Using that line as an axis of rotation, rotate your plane until it also intersects the third point. 

Is there any other plane that does this? 

If that third point was on the line would there be zero, one, or many planes?

If it helps, a lot of people, myself included, have no side effects at all. You just dont hear from us because you are more likely to post problems, not lack of problems.

Im down 70lbs and at my goal weight, on a 1mg maintenance dose.

Right?! I love being able to afford to take care of myself. Compounded Tirz for the win!

yeah, it's tough caring for people with down syndrome

makes you wonder how those caregivers can push on each day, because I'd be out the moment 'down syndrome' came out of the doctor's mouth

I didn’t realize there was a 2.5 dose. Interesting.

Idk man I don’t think overweight and obese people get to play the victim here but that’s just my opinion. Corporations aren’t forcing people to shove their products down their throats.

Holy shit this is crazy.. I'm seeing body cam videos on youtube about it now.. wow

How would you have gone with your sobriety if you had to keep having three drinks a day though?

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

ELI5 is not for subjective or speculative replies - only objective explanations are permitted here; your question is asking for subjective or speculative replies. 

Additionally, if your question is formatted as a hypothetical, that also falls under Rule 2 for its speculative nature. 

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Recent/current events are not allowed on ELI5 proper. First, these are usually asking for short answers or opinions. Additionally, information about these events is usually still developing, making objective and accurate answers difficult.

We do have a megathread pinned to the top of the subreddit where you can ask questions about current events as comments. If you cannot see it on your reddit platform try sorting the comments by “hot”.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

Generally tow truck try to pick cars up by the drive wheels, so the free-spinning ones are the only ones in contact with the ground. Not all four wheels are locked up when a car is parked… usually.

For cars with AWD, trucks can slide dollies beneath each wheel so the whole car is off the ground.

And sometimes, the cars just get damaged. It helps to pay your loan properly.

Compounded drugs do not necessarily work the same as the FDA approved versions is what I am getting at. Compound versions include other ingredients not included in the real drug which can alter the effectiveness. And on top of that compounds that change how you take it (ie oral tablets vs injection) it may not be effective at all.

1mg is still a titration dose and not technically meant to make you lose weight. 1.7 and 2.5 are the doses you are expected to lose at.

However many people do lose at any of the doses below 1.7mg.

The Civil Rights Lawyer has a pretty good coverage of the issue.

100lbs here in about a year and now damn near perfect A1C

Totally forgot about that crazy fact

I don't even drink very often, usually 1-2 times per month and usually only 2-3 drinks. It will take me two hours to finish a beer, and it will taste good and I'll enjoy it, but then I'll just be completely meh about having another.

You give me your stuff to sell and I take a cut if it does. Bob bought my store, sells your stuff but kept all the money because you and him never made the deal. Even though when Bob bought my store he also took responsibility for the deal you and I had and should've given you your money minus the cut. That's it in a nutshell.

There’s also the whole shitting your brains out when you eat something remotely greasy effect.

Even as an Uber i have seen people's personalities change drastically in a college town watching freshmen turn into seniors. We don't even fully develop till 25 or so. Why would you diagnose personality which can change wildly over the years.

Y'all should mention that it's American Fork Utah and everyone involved is Mormon Mafia.

I know I SHOULD... But I have this real big issue with quality of life being probably too important for me. There's a reason I'm not jacked and sporting a 6 pack, and it doesn't have anything to do with not wanting to put in the work. I've had my numbers in check for a while before, and got down to a (for me) decent weight, and I was miserable while it was happening. My partner's aunt once said "Nothing tastes as good as looking good feels." And I couldn't help but think "Bullshit."

I understand that I shouldn't indulge in carb and sweets as much as I do, but to maintain proper blood sugar I pretty much have to entirely abstain from them, and I'm not willing to do that. Food is onenof the few real joys I have left in my life, and cutting out my favorite types of food seems more like torture to me, than being healthy. Like... I quit doing meth, y'all, lemme enjoy my ice cream.

A Bricks and Minifigs location offered to consign $200,000 worth of LEGOs from a dying old man, which means they would sell the product in their store, take a cut, and give most of the money back to the owner. The location was soon sold to a new franchise owner who decided he would just keep the LEGOs as if they were all his. 

Any time the original owner tried to kindly ask for the LEGOs back, the store owner and CEO of Bricks and Minifigs would rely on a defense that "they were always ours, but even if you try to sue us we have so much Firepower we will drain you for all your money in court (not a true quote, but the jist of it). 

The issue is still unresolved to this day.

Good summary except that the aboslute police corruption should be highlighted more. It's actually crazy how the cops behave. He should be glad he's white or he might've already caught bullets.

People with Down syndrome often have low muscle tone. This makes them fatigue more quickly. And eventually move less. 

Many people with DS also are picky eaters and may only eat highly processed foods that are high in calories. They also frequently have thyroid issues and sleep apnea. 

And they typically cannot drive. If you can’t drive, it limits your social opportunities. If you stay home all the time, you aren’t getting a lot of movement in.

There’s a variety of reasons.

Sugary food doesnt taste as good as it used to after I started GLP-1s

Can confirm, the food noise is gone, and it's the best feeling

They lie about everything. Theres a ridiculous amount of evidence to prove they're lying. That's their side.

Food also tastes different for me. So I no longer crave those foods, cause they dont taste as good as they used to.

Personally I am the opposite. I have lived in 13 different places but none of them felt like home. We have live in the same street for the past 10years, multiple different apartments within a few kilometers of each other. None of them felt like home.

This street didn't start feeling like him until we bought a place of our own. I don't know if it because this is the first house I lived in or if it's due to being ours.. but this is finally home

Wow this is an awesome reply it should be higher

Shop took a collection worth couple hundred thousand with the understand they would sell it for him. 

Shop kept the collection and told him to pound sand. When they guy started fighting for it back the Shop got their cop buddies to pressure the guy to back off but he didnt. It became public and pissed a lot of people off

The pharmaceutical companies have to skim the cream first. They're not some if the richest corporations on Earth for nothin'.

I don’t have empathy. I’m just curious.

Ive decided to believe they somehow accidentally posted here, when they meant to post to a completely different subreddit

I've read it's usually traumatic injury.  Once ashore the wave picks up and carries all sort of debris and it's one big mixing machine where you don't not come off well.

Wat ain’t no temple I ever heard of!

Its not caregivers being lazy, its avoiding headbanging, biting, screaming, and them refusing to eat anything at all that day. Its often a choice between offering the safe food or the child going hungry.

Not an answer since I think everyone else has it covered, but kudos to you for being really cool about all this at 15! Most kids you would not get such empathy on this type of subject lol.

Space is cooling off too, in trillions of years the CMB temperature will be much less than the 2.73 K it is today.

So what are the downsides or risks? Or are there really not any, that's why it's become so popular?

Do you not feel like you have less energy or weaker due to eating much less?

pretty much exactly my view, I just keep telling myself I just gotta fix the habits around eating then I just fail and the cycle repeats

Most companies worth are based on expected income, not physicallyheld assets...so small loss or revenue may have huge impact.

If companies have 5% profit margin and income drops "just" 8% - they need to cut expenses or close the business entirely.That affects the services they consume and so on.

So market volume can dissappear very quickly in a cascading event.

Definitely a discussion for his doctor.

"this is not normal behavior"
Story of my life

I remember reading somewhere that you might most likely also die from electrocution since downed power lines and all that mess due to the tsunami

Was it that quickly? That day your craving and food noise were gone?

Just a friendly reminder, you can import a compunded version, pay out of pocket to send to a lab for a mass spec, get the results and start shooting it cheaper than what it would cost you through insurance.

Drowning would be more likely. Depending on what else is on the beach and where you were at the time there’s a chance the debris could take you out before you drown.

It can be, it can also be associated with diarrhea. It slows stomach emptying, but intestines have other stuff to do between when the stomach empties and when you poop, and different people’s intestines respond differently to GLP1s. It seems like most people find that poop-related side effects are temporary and dose-dependent. For some people they’re severe enough to stop them from titrating up to the dose their doctor originally wanted them to get to, but relatively few people stop taking the meds because of diarrhea or constipation.

That is not normal behavior.

Also you’re describing three different things in your comment and none have to do with my original comment. 

You’d have to see a specialist because you would 100% regain that weight back once you stop taking it. A majority of people regain 50-70% of their original weight after stopping semaglutide. 25% of people regain their all their original weight + more after stopping.

Nope, nothing to do with covalent bonds. The carbon atoms actually end up inside the iron crystal structure as it cools and that's one of the major features that increases hardness. 

As you heat up iron the crystalline structure changes from a more close packed cubic structure that carbon atoms don't fit in to a more open hexagonal structure that allows the carbon to "dissolve" in the iron. When you cool it back down the structure changes back and you end up with carbon atoms trapped inside the crystalline structure. There's tons of nuance to how much carbon you want in the mix, what sort of structures  form as it cools, etc, that all contribute to the properties of the final material.

I am on one of those drugs and I've lost 25% of my weight.

The mechanism of action is the same as always: diet and exercise. What the drug does is it significantly lowers the difficulty level.

Your body has a signaling system that tells you when you need to eat. For some of us, that signaling system is kind of messed up, and you can think of GLP-1 drugs as a way to fix that so my sense of hunger is in line with that of a healthy person.

I have "known" how to lose weight for a very long time. I have seen many doctors and nutritionists over the years. I know how to eat healthy. But I was never able to lose weight and I was dangerously obese. When you start taking the drug, you still need to do all the right things to lose weight, but like I said, it lowers the difficulty level. I feel like I spent my entire life playing on "hard" mode and now I'm playing on normal mode.

Did you ever see Michael Moore’s documentary “Sicko” about how the American Medical Association squelched popular demand for a National Health Service?  In the 1950’s they organized coffee klatches in women’s hmes to stop national health insurance.  They were alarmed by the post WWII popular demand in Britain that established the NHS.  

He also took several NYC fire fighters who were permanently sickened from 9/11 to Cuba. They  could not afford their medication in the US, but could buy it for a couple dollars in any pharmacy in Cuba.

T1 here and things are going to be different for everyone, but around 200mg/dl it is pretty mild but I am more thirsty and have to pee more often. Naturally it gets worse and there are more symptoms as your blood sugar rises. When I was diagnosed it was bad enough that my eyeballs had swollen and I was essentially blind for a bit. But that was at absurdly high sugars (like 1300mg/dl) and I was barely conscious.

Either way, if your doctor says to get your sugars in check you should get your sugars in check.

I'm diabetic and this changed my life! I'm on Mounjaro and I try to space out does to allow an appetite because I'm not getting the nutrition I need all the time. 

But I can tell I'm due for my dose because my blood sugars start bouncing. I can feel it! My grandpa had diabetes and struggled with it terribly. Tried losing weight, tried to control his blood sugar. He passed about 10 years ago and when I started on this I really thought a lot about him. He suffered so much fighting with himself over food.

Obesity is a chronic life long disease, so its management is also chronic and lifelong. 🤷‍♀️

Yes, this is something I’m extremely interested in! I have a compulsive gambler in my inner circle and have been trying to convince him to give it a go, but he’s afraid of the side effects, which is understandable. (However the side effects of gambling are much worse IMO!)

People do eat too much that is for sure but it isnt like they live in a vacuum. There are a bunch of industries who prefer to remain nameless that have spent a lot of time and money making sure their products are ultra palatable.

Yes it goes away. Its crazy how long I can go without even thinking about food. But also I’m ADD as hell and also on Adderall.

When I had gestational diabetes and my blood sugar increased over 150, paradoxically I felt hungrier.

If all they did was make you less hungry, they wouldn’t treat diabetes.

Supply of anything that has to be manufactured is limited by manufacturing capacity! (Compounding pharmacies are increasing availability, but there are still probably far more people who would benefit from GLP1s than current manufacturing and compounding facilities could immediately serve if suddenly everyone in the world who would benefit from them got a prescription and the funds to pay for it.)

I envy people that it works for lol. All it did to me was slow my digestive tract down so much it basically halted, and that was just after one use. I was so nauseous and bloated. I wasn't pooping because it wasn't moving. I immediately stopped taking it. It took several weeks for my stomach to get back to some kind of normalcy.

Lol this is so real. I mostly just see tv ads when I stay in a hotel (like once a year). It’s a wild world

Just a friendly reminder for anyone reading this, compound drugs are not FDA approved so use and purchase at your own risk.

Humour after dark times I get it. Stay safe ✊

if it slows gastric emptying and as a result you feel full longer after a meal and eat less, and this continues for an extended time. (But most of the reasons people would take a daily anti-diarrhea medication are conditions that already interfere to some degree with digestion, so in real life they might be treating a condition that was preventing optimal nutrient absorption, so the net effect would be to increase weight. Intentionally inducing diarrhea is a form of bulimia. It leads to loss of both “water weight” and actual body weight over time, but will also destroy your GI tract.)

Your mortgage is less than $449? That’s the direct from manufacturer price. Still very cost prohibitive though.

People already do that. They rent a bus and come up from Vermont or whatever. Canadian full price is still cheaper than having American insurance.

I really dislike framing it as an issue of willpower tbh. It is not the same as just wanting a snack or lacking discipline. Food noise is more like being dehydrated in a desert surrounded by dry crackers and being told you should just 'try harder' to not think about water. People who have not lived with that just do not get how relentless and pervasive it is.

We moved from a big city to a semi-rural home last year. I think it took two weeks before it felt like home. I couldn't imagine living in the previous house.

And then we started painting the walls friendly colors and the house is my new child.

The idea of “food noise” is so foreign to me. 

I’ve got the opposite end of the spectrum where my body sends minimal signaling that I’m hungry until I start feeling physical pain. The only time I have what everyone else describes as their normal “time for food” signaling is when I smoke weed.

“If you just had the willpower to eat less.”

🙄 It turns out that willpower is biological and not a function of a much self control.

GoodRx usually gets it down into just "regular expensive" range (e.g. $200/mo). Don't know about your medication in particular.

Children go through phases, with many of them testing out affects and behaviors that they 
borrow from peers or media. They don’t integrate every single thing into their personality. If kids were diagnosed with personality disorders, many of them would “qualify” for at least one of them for a few months.

Which is stupid since you think it would be in the best interest of the insurance companies if everyone lost a bunch of weight. It would mean they would save a ton of money paying for other stuff related to obesity. I’m surprised they don’t encourage the hell out of these medications.

The thing is this also means whatever you dislike about yourself is illusion as well. 

Your memory is tricking you into disliking yourself.  Your memory is tricking you into thinking your flaws, which we all have, are worse than they actually are.

This why a lot of people say confidence is key but what they don't mention is that confidence comes from accepting ideal appearence is an illuision.

I don’t have an answer, but I’ve felt this much sooner than a year. I’ve felt it within 3 months in a new city in my same country, and even within 4 days in a foreign city abroad. I’ve moved and lived in both of those places later in life and the feeling never changed. I didn’t know anyone there, had no ties or culture to the place, but the size of the city, the hobbies, the nature, the people, everything…just clicked. Where I was born / raised never felt like “home” to me, so I think my soul had been searching to create that somewhere.

That last sentence really hits the nail on the head that I actually hadn't thought of before.

I take the maximum metformin rx and get a 6.1 to 6.5 A1C.   I’m on Medicare which is starting a trial for GLP-1 in July.  Wondering if I should cut down on the metformin dose to qualify.

Positive experiences.  That sense of "home" is a combo of familiarity AND comfort. Familiarity is time but comfort is positive experiences. Some people have the opposite situation too, maybe they live somewhere their whole life and it never feels like home because they never have the comfort of those positive experiences.

For me it made the foods that I crave (like sweets and fried stuff) upset my stomach and sometimes vomit.

Holy crap. Zepbound has turned me into you lol

I go a little further and if I do overeat my body goes into revolt. Nausea and general disgust with food for the rest of the day

It's actually part of your psychology that have a need for shelter. Once you get used to a new place, your brain automatically consider it to be a safe shelter, satisfying your "psychological need." That is why homeless people are often struggle with mental issue because one of their most basic needs is not fulfilled.

Personality still develops/rapidly changes until someone has finished their puberty. Therefore, personality disorders can't be diagnosed in children despite warning signals being there. It's very possible they grow out of it, it develops in a different direction, worsens or lessens, so labeling it before that is impossible. Furthermore, personality disorders are difficult to diagnose on their own in adults who have more stable personalities.

Because they aren't done developing.

Some people go through some *wild* teenage years that would easily leave an adult with multiple diagnosis, but they aren't adults, their brains are still developing, their hormones are going nuts and they are trying their best to understand who they are and what it looks like to be them and they make a bunch of mistakes along the way.

That's not worthy of diagnosis, that's worthy of giving them more time to develop.

It's not just about NPD, there are a bunch of diagnosis that fall under more or less the same category for the above reasons.

Oh that’s a good description! Looking back it definitely felt like my body hit the brakes when my Hashimoto’s started kicking in

I thought I had read that you're most likely to die from getting hit by other things thr wave picks up and moves.

Likely the same coupon I use. You need to have insurance to use that coupon. It only lowers what you pay directly, not what your insurance pays, so they're still raking in obscene gobs of money.  
  
You can probably ask your doc to bump you up to a 3-month prescription. I started on the one month, but asked for a 90 day supply and got it switched over. It's still just $25, so it does save money.

Most of it, actually.

Julia Child taught me (on PBS) to use a fork to open an English Muffin to preserve the nooks and crannies and I believe have fewer crumbs.

Humans are undoubtedly the cause of the current mass extinction event which threatens to massively reduce the world’s biodiversity. Mosquitoes are just doing their best

I am not an expert, but, logicaly, child brains/body are developing and changing all the time which means that behavior will change too with time. So in reality what seems like a symptom of smth, might get outgrown when the child develops into a teenager/adult.

I mean, I'm signed up for a 600 mile bicycle ride next week, including at least one 100-mile day in upper nineties heat.  I won't take a lot of sh1+ from anyone about my will power.  I've also lost 180 pounds on Zepbound.  Take off that what you will.  My personal experience is that before the drugs, I had all this stored energy (body fat) but couldn't access it.  I'd do something athletic.  And all I'd do is work up an appetite.  If I intentionally didn't eat (enough), I'd eventually just shut down and crash out.  To me... just subjective... it feels like the drugs unlocked a padlock on my stored fat.  I was then pretty easily able to burn 5,000 calories (60+ mile bike ride), eat 2,500, and not be suffering for it the next day.  The danger is now, where I'm BMI of 22, 14% body fat... I can't eff around with eating.  I don't have fat left to burn.  And, yes, still on Zepbound, every intention of being a lifer.

What I’ve come to recognize as “food-noise” stopped once I started the GLP-1 med. My mind is so quiet!  It’s brilliant!  I’m not fighting off cravings anymore. 

Made me realize I actually had a TON of willpower fighting off all the former cravings. The tiny nudges I get once in a long while now are so weak and feeble that I have no problem completely ignoring them.

I don't think that you are going to get a factual answer that is able to be backed up by evidence for this question.  However, I would imagine that it is how well you fit in to a unfamiliar place that can make it feel like "home" quite quickly.  If the people are welcoming, your housing feels comfortable and there isn't anything unsettling for you then it is quite easy to feel at home.

Saying that the reasons someone may or may not be able to continue with CI<CO don't matter is extremely reductive, and not helpful for a lot of people.

Bagels are toasted too..

You will lose muscle if you eat at a deficit regardless of whether you're assisted by medication. I'm confused why you think doing it through willpower alone is superior. All GLP1s do is make it easier to eat at a deficit; whichever way you do that it is always recommended to complement your diet with resistance training and sufficient protein to prevent muscle loss.

It is generally discouraged to diagnose a personality disorder before age 18 because personality is still developing. 

In this case, normal development can look narcissistic: teenagers often show self-centeredness, sensitivity to criticism, a desire for admiration/validation, …

Other factors such as family dynamics, insecurity, etc. can temporarily produce behavior that resembles narcissism. 

That said, clinicians can identify narcissistic traits and behaviors, even developmental risk factors in children and adolescents. The issue is that a proper diagnosis requires confidence that the pattern is stable rather than a phase of development.

I see it as the hunger goes from a yell to a whisper

My wife has diabetes.   She was testing her sugar regularly at 300+ taking insulin.   Initially took Ozempic and switched to Mounjaro. She now tests her sugar at 100 to 110, and hasn't taken Insulin in over a year.  Stuff is a miracle.

Also they are much more likely to have early onset dementia.

Probably WAT is White Adipose Tissue and BAT is Brown Adipose Tissue.

I read a scientist article in the 90’s when they first discovered GLP1 in Gila monster venom. They were looking for an insulin substitute for diabetes then found that one of the side effects was reduced appetite.

What are the symptoms of diabetes? Just curious, as someone who's been getting yelled at by his doctor for years that he needs to get his diabetes in check, but has never once felt any different depending in blood sugar levels...

Also the plants grow where the drainage is correct for their species. The water lovers will grow in or near where all of that water runs too. The easily over watered will stay high up and take sips before each rainfall immediately drains away.

Change the landscape and you change the drainage which will change which wild plants grow in that area.

To avoid labeling a child and jacking up their prospects in life before they even start. Which shows how inherently flawed our system is.

Ah fair enough. I do like the occasional sauna/hot bath too. And yeah can understand the Dr asking with that blood pressure. But if thats your normal then

Mounjaro has a corporate coupon for $25/month if you have a DM2 diagnosis and your insurance refuses to cover it. 

Recommend giving it a shot. Has worked for me for several years during which my insurance refused to cover it.

There is belief and some early indication that the glucagon receptor agonist in retatrutide does actually make the body use more stored fat for energy and increases your resting energy expenditure.

No, it’s not tidal - it just *looks* the same as the tide coming in but faster

Anyone who has been on heavy prednisone knows what it is like to a degree and yeah, an evil joke feels accurate for JUST Pred, PW is like even further beyond.

While on prednisone your sense of hunger is turned up to 11.  I remember my brain trying to basically count down the moments til I had JUST enough emptiness in my stomach to eat more food.  You will never stop craving more, even when absolutely full.  It’s insane and supremely distressing.

As much as I hate pharmaceutical companies a lot of the glp1 producers have coupons for them if you have a diagnosis of DM2. My insurance doesn’t cover mounjaro but I’ve been on it for several years using a corporate coupon. Costs me $25/month. Only annoyance is they only dispense 4 injections at a time so you have to pick it up every month.

It depends if it is front wheel drive, rear wheel drive or all wheel drive. Typically they can crawl under the car to access the transmission linkage and shift it into neutral. Depending on the drive of the car they lift it up frontways, rearways or it requires a bed.

The primary mechanism by which people lose weight is reduced caloric intake. These medications change your biology that drives obese people to consume excess food. But there are metabolism benefits to these medications that improve fat oxidation and optimize *how* your body uses energy. There are many factors that can impact the CO part of CICO and GLP1s can impact them.

I do like it hot. I sit in the sauna at the gym a couple times a week and always out in the sun. I think my body thinks I'm always on fire and just keeps getting better at sweating more and more to desperately cool off. poor thing. my blood pressure is generally only around 90 over 60 and the doctor always asks me if I'm dizzy.

The dirty air reduces the amount of drag that is acting on the car in the rear as the air is being pushed by the car in the front, however this reduction in drag is not always beneficial because aerodynamic parts on cars are designed to produce downforce scaling with increased drag.

and it has nothing to do with willpower.

What your describing is part of willpower though.

Everybody has different habits / genetics / psychology / biology that dictates how natural the "right" decisions come. Some people are naturally motivated to do significant exercise every single day. Some people are not. It's not a "willpower" difference between these two camps, but it's absolutely a willpower issue for the people in the second camp who don't exercise. 

Life is all about playing the hand that you are dealt. If you are dealt a bad hand, then that's bad luck but you only have your own decisions to control how that hand ends up being played. There are plenty of people who are not naturally gifted academically, but they work hard and go further / get better grades than people who are naturally gifted. Same with athletics / art / health.

I love to eat salad and vegetables. So it's a lot easier for me to eat healthy than it is for people who don't like those things. It requires less willpower for me in this context. But they can't hide behind "but my body just doesn't like those things! it has nothing to do with willpower!" as an excuse for not eating properly. 

People eating too much and/or not exercising enough isn't _only_ about willpower, but willpower _is_ a big part of it since it's the main thing that each individual can actually control.

Anything below 6.5 is considered pre-diabetic. They won't diagnose you as diabetic until you reach that magical number of 6.5. I am diabetic. I remember being in the higher pre-diabetic range and having diabetic symptoms.  It sucks that you really don't have access to really good meds until you reach the magical number (insurance won't cover most diabetic drugs until then).

True, Fox and Friends is sometimes entertaining.

Solution: Compound Tirzepatide purchased online. Works great and costs me about $100/mo.

Constipation can definitely be a side effect of glp-1 due to the slowed digestion, yes. For many (most) people this can be effectively managed with diet & water intake, fibre supplements if needed, and occasionally OTC meds for acute symptoms. I haven't struggled with it (I did when pregnant tho omg the worst you have my sympathy) but lots of people do.

I get mine online for $160/mo. Works great.

In principle, a recession is defined as two successive quarters where the GDP of a region declines rather than increases.

The thinking is that one quarter where GDP declines might have just been a bad quarter, but two in a row suggests a pattern.

Lots of things can lead to a recession and that's probably outside the scope of this subreddit. But the bottom line is that for two quarters in a row, the GDP of a jurisdiction decreased.

It reminds me of this short scifi story that I read many years ago.  Summary copied from this post.

"The Green Marauder" (1980 short story) by Larry Niven. 

This is a Draco Tavern story (part of Niven's series set in a bar frequented by aliens). An extremely ancient alien recounts visiting Earth billions of years ago (during the Archean eon, pre-Great Oxidation Event). 

She describes a sophisticated, slow-moving anaerobic civilization of fragile beings who built beautiful floating cities. They were doomed by the spread of "green scum" (cyanobacteria) that produced oxygen via photosynthesis—a poison to their biochemistry—which killed them off and left fertilizer for more oxygen-producers.

\~\~\~

and that oxidation converted all the dissolved iron in the seas in to huge amounts of rust deposits.  That's how the "iron range" of iron ore deposits in Minnesota was created.

The patent was soon to expire anyway, they strategically chose to let the patent lapse and depend on data exclusivity protection while it lasted. Letting the patent lapse avoided Canadian price control oversight and let them charge what they wanted for a period while losing a negligible amount of time under patent control. A certain percentage are always going to want the name brand, they did the math and figured how they could maximize their return despite possibly allowing generics in a little bit sooner.

Facts. One of the most shocking things for me is the fact that there are entire categories of food my body just can't tolerate anymore. Like white bread. Makes me crazy bloated and nauseous. If I stick to whole grains I'm fine. I also can't do eggs anymore but that may be more because of the sulfur aspect.

Overall it is when money flow declined to a level that isn't sustainable for economic development. Less cash is spent, means less cash goes to businesses and people, means less cash to spend....the cycle continues. 

The government at this point needs to inject money into the economy via grants, loans etc. Anything to stimulate buying power and buy/sell activity. 

Recession is technically when 2 quarters of GDP are below growth in consecutive order.

The starter is .25mg. Maybe I’m confusing mg and ml but I’m on the second highest dose.  Starting 1.7 in 2 weeks.  Fingers crossed.

Yeah damn! Sorry you had to go through hear stroke. Heard that it ain't fun!

Like I said to the other commenter, I was hoping that it would reduce sweating at some of the lower intensities due to me being a bit of a sweater already. May I ask how long you've been back at New England? And do you still do some form of heat training?

**Please read this entire message before taking action.**

Thanks for participating in ELI5. This thread has been flagged as not asking for an objective explanation and been removed.  Explain Like I'm Five is for **General Concepts**, not specific problems or things an individual experiences. **Questions about your body or things you experience are never appropriate for ELI5. Questions about the human body rarely are.** Please consider another subreddit carefully before messaging the mods.

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

Keep on enjoying ELI5!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Obviously that makes no sense, but that's how it seemed.

This makes totally sense, if you have ever stepped on your car's brake with full force while standing on a traffic light, because a train or bus one lane beside you started moving.

It depends, for people with insulin resistance for example, they most likely will have to take it for the rest of their life but at a lower dose.

Because 5lbs a month is incredibly slow. The target for the people I know on it is about double that.

There have been some studies that suggest that semaglutides actually promote fat tissue browning. This is the type of fat cell responsible for burning fat and keeping you warm. Theoretically this means that they are supressing your appetite, slowing your digestion, and increasing your bodies ability to effectively burn fat.

I started Zepbound exactly 2 months ago tomorrow. Not only I've lost 20 pounds so far I haven't had a drink in close to two months.

I'll also add that I have not needed to use my inhaler even once. There is something about Zepbound that it's not the weight loss because my breathing improved almost immediately.  I've noticed this mentioned on many Internet forms.

Isn't that below the typical starter dose?

Many insurance companies will not approve it even with a sleep apnea diagnosis however.

I was talking tirzepatide specifically, which doesn't have any other options yet. Even so, $250 a month is a lot of money for most people.

That's a good hypothesis.

From memory, they were focusing on the actual spread by sharing the same room, etc.

Basically, if one child had something, the likelihood was they would *all* get it.

Underrated comment. People aren't talking about this nearly enough.

It's going to be prohibition era bootlegging all over again, you'll have people hauling crates of pens through tunnels under the border

My doctor told me about this but I can ask her for links.

But, like, what do you do when you're bored now? I wouldn't even know.

Any studies you can share on this topic?

You just forget it exists, your body doesn't let you, quite literally, the thought of it makes you nauseous lol

It can cause the ground to sink. Although oil fills the pores of reservoir rocks (a bit like water in a sponge), as it is removed, the grains of the rock can squash closer together and the rock becomes more compact. 

A really big example is the giant Ekofisk field in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea. This is an unusual field in that the oil comes from a thick layer of chalk, but when it was opened, there was very little knowledge in how well chalk would stand up to oil extraction. In the first twenty years of production, some rigs sank by 2.5m and in places, the seabed was sinking by 50cm per year! It was projected that the field could subside by 6m before the end of production. 

This doesn't sound like much, but it meant that some parts of the rigs were now below the minimum height above sea level to protect them from '100 year waves'. During the 1980s, several rigs had their legs cut, were jacked up and new segments welded into place to keep the rigs safe. Ekofisk is still producing huge amounts of oil and will probably keep going until 2050 or so.

This stuff fucks with my body dismorphia, i just wanna know what i look like. Good explination tho!

I've been on reddit for 15 years and I don't think I've ever seen someone actually argue that CICO isn't real. Just that it's not the complete picture.

It's a reddit straw man.

Where I live in North Texas it's actually generally associated with cooler and wetter weather. Summers are less impacted but it still affects us slightly which is a good thing for us but it's not great for winters. The winter of 2014-2015 was a pretty bad one by Texas standards with a few ice storms and that was an El Nino winter

Ugh okay,  yeah thats what my mind was thinking should happen with this type of training. I was just hoping that as I am already a bit of a sweater that at some of the lower intensities I wouldn't sweat as much.

Thanks for your response

It depends on if its a owner requested transport or a repo, if its an owner requested transport you use skates metal skates under the tires until you get it in a good position where you can lift it and use tire dollies or if its a flatbed you can use skates until it gets onto the deck then just pull it up normally, 

If its a repo fuck all that and get in and out as fast as you can so you dont get shot

It's not wrong but it is somewhat reductive. Losing weight involves your whole body system, including your gut biome, your brain, your stomach, your hormones, and even your environment. If even one of these things is off it can make losing weight more difficult.

Yes CICO is the mechanism of how it works but it's not the full picture. It's like insisting "well your car can't run without gasoline. Gasoline goes in, energy goes out." Yes, that's how it works but the other parts of the car need to be working too.

The vast majority of images used to train doctors and in medical textbooks are of white people, usually male. It causes a lot of issues with, e.g. doctors not knowing what melanoma looks like on a black person’s skin. Unfortunately another symptom of racism and sexism in the medical industry.

But you’re right, anecdotally, all of the people with Down’s I’ve ever met have been white. I lived in Japan for a while, too, and don’t remember seeing any Down’s cases there. Is it genetically more common among white people?

I have read that disability education and access is a lot more limited in many cultures around the world. If your family’s public image is important to you and you want to avoid shame above all else, you don’t take disabled family members out in public where the neighbors can see them.

Plenty of frackquakes in Oklahoma and whereabouts, too far from any tectonic plate boundaries to be having regular earthquakes.

I like how you try to talk right past the fact that being well-insured is a $7,000-$10,000 yearly expense.

And then they treat it by giving you radioactive iodine to damage the thyroid, and then have to treat you for hypothyroidism. Good times!

GLP-1 medications and dual agonists like tirzepatide aren't just "injectable willpower."
Yes, they reduce appetite and help people eat less, but that's only part of the story. I am going to focus in tirzepatide:

They improve *insulin sensitivity*, reduce blood sugar swings, slow stomach emptying, and act on the brain's hunger and reward centers. For many people, food becomes less mentally intrusive and cravings decrease dramatically.

They also *help the body access stored energy more effectively*. As insulin resistance improves, the body becomes better able to release stored glycogen and the water that is stored alongside it. This is one reason many people notice an early drop in weight, puffiness, and bloating even before significant fat loss occurs.

Many people also experience reduced inflammation. Some notice less swelling in their hands, face, abdomen, neck, or legs, less joint pain, and improvements in conditions linked to chronic inflammation. Researchers are still studying all of these effects, but they appear to be real and not solely explained by eating fewer calories. It often starts in the first week of taking the meds while many people haven't even changed how many calories they are taking in yet.

Weight loss still ultimately requires the body to use more energy than it takes in. However, tirzepatide changes the biological systems that regulate hunger, satiety, insulin, energy storage, and inflammation. That's why many people who have struggled for years find that it feels fundamentally different from simply trying harder to eat less.

I wonder if the reason the get more viruses is becuase they have kids in more cohorts of children, to come in contact and bring home the viruses.

They don't call it a Krusty Burger with Cheese?

I know several people who have taken or are on various GLP-1 medicine.

It basically ramps you "I am REALLY full and I need to stop eating" response up to 11.  Like I shouldn't have had 3rds at Thanksgiving dinner, but after a modest sized meal. Combine that with it slowing down your digestion, and if you don't listen to that you will be sick.

Everyone I know who had taken it went through an initial phase getting used to the medication and ate too much accidentally.   If you learn to eat less, slow down, and pay attention to what you body is saying it works amazing. 

If you don't change your eating habits you will be sick a lot and hate the medication.

I haven't had five apples my entire life. I grew up so fucking poor that a meal a day was by most optimistic hope. 

And it was poor people dinner:kind of protein and a shitty frozen vegetable. 

But then I started making my own money and it turned into a for real protein and a for real vegetable. 

Y'all can try to discredit my life all you want, but I know the metrics I've lived by and the food that I've consumed my entire life. I operate at a deficit and can't lose weight: simple as.

This is the beauty of modern medicine. It has made things easier and more accessible, so you don't really need all the unnecessary suffering. 

I trained equally as hard, but I'm making food mistakes that I couldn't fix.

I never snack, but my brain is wired incorrectly so I got a huge endorphin rush whenever I ate to extreme overfullness. Every meal I was eating way more than I needed to because that was the behavior that my brain said was good, even though I consciously knew it was bad for me.  
  
Since I started on a GLP-1, I FINALLY have the "You've eaten enough, stop eating" signal. It has been life changing. Like it always felt normal to completely clean my plate at every meal and then go back for seconds and thirds, but now I hit a point where I've had enough food and my body tells me to stop. I'm leaving food uneaten on my plate for the first time in my life.

Genuinely curious what would happen if I took ozempic.

I’m 6’ 150lb and can eat with abandon without putting on weight but typically have ~one meal a day off hunger alone.

Would my body basically go on an involuntary hunger strike? From some numbers I hear of people dropping, it sounds like I may just vanish.

My wife pays, I think, $350 for a three month supply of shots. I am on the same medication for obesity as part of a weight loss program and I pay $169 for a month supply. This stuff does work. I had already begun to loose weight a few years ago when my wife was diagnosed and we completely changed our lifestyle, but I plateaued after losing ~80 pounds. I’ve lost an additional ~60 pounds with the medication and been maintaining since then.

Everyone on ozempic looks like they’re on South Bronx Paradise baby

With semaglutide I mainly dealt with massive energy drop (but I also wasn't working out at the time which I understand is a way to counter it) and heartburn. I also experienced minor issues with nausea but I didn't really care about that as it wasn't that bad. 
 
Tirzepitide has also had minimal nausea, and I had pretty bad heartburn for the first couple months but I was able to mostly mitigate it with tums, and eventually it went away as my body got used to processing less food for longer and my eating habits changed and I ate less greasy things

The way you said it sounds so judgemental. Probably it is. Only if we can all have will power. Its not about will power you know.

Absolutely. The shit is insane. Only downside is not getting enough protein, thats why they’re marketing every fucking item as “protein ____” now, apparently like 1 in 5 people are on GLP-1s, which happened insanely quick IMO. 

I have been off of it for a month and its wild to be reminded of what incessant hunger is again. Im thirsty as hell again too. Im on it plus Metformin for my diabetes, its demolished my higher A1Cs.
Its wild to hear how much weight some folks are losing. Ive been on it almost a year and have kind of plateaued at like 10-15 pounds less but I havent been exercising a lot.
It does make me feel more lethargic, I must admit that.

Thanks for the response! I am feeling great now but seeing slowed digestion, my brain went to, oh no, that sounds like constipation! lol

I’m not on GLP1, I was curious!

Since you just had a baby, there could be many reasons why you are constipated.

Taking GLP-1 gave me smaller poop because I ate less. But it definitely did not cause constipation. I still feel like a rocket sometimes.

As someone who is currently on it, I could easily put away most of a pizza in one sitting. Now, I feel properly full after just one slice.

High speed rails are best for high density population areas. Studies show that HSR does best for distances over 100 miles but less then 500 miles. In the US, the average distance between major urban centers are between 1,000 miles and 1,250 miles; as such there are very limited areas where high speed rails would make sense in the US due to our low population density. Basically only the Northeast, the Texas triangle, and LA to the Bay Area. A Midwest route (connecting Minneapolis-Chicago-Detroit) and a PNW route (connecting Portland-Seattle-Vancouver) might also be viable. Ultimately, it has to compete with a 100 year old highway network infrastructure and a tradition of roadtrips that the US is built on.

I'm not saying you're lying, I'm saying something about what you think happened is wrong. Maybe you don't understand the issue, but what you're telling me is the same as telling me you started with five apples, gained one apple, gave away three apples, and yet you still are left with five apples. It doesn't work. Basic addition and subtraction hasn't broken down here, so what we're left with is knowing that there must be a mistake in the amounts you told me.  

I believe that you're not losing weight, that's a starting premise that doesn't make sense to question. So in this analogy, I believe that you started with five apples and you still have at least five apples. Where does that leave us? Well that means that gained apples - given away apples >= 0. There is no other option. Or in terms of food, calories in - calories out >= 0. If the numbers you're giving for calories in and calories out violate that, the numbers are simply wrong. Not because you're lying, but because something must have been overlooked or misunderstood.

They’ve convinced a big chunk of the population that it’s better if they went bankrupt paying for healthcare than to pay a little more in taxes to stop someone else from going bankrupt paying for healthcare.

I started zepbound maybe 2-3 months ago, before starting it even on a very very mild caloric deficit (~1-200 calories) I’d have an awful headache around 3-5, by 5 I’d start having blurry vision and hot flashes. Shortly after eating dinner all that would go away. 

Since starting zepbound I really only experience that the day before the next dose, and even then it’s significantly more mild. I used to think it was just a shortcut for willpower and I was really hesitant because of that. I thought it was cheating, but now that I’m on it I really do realize that it does help some physiological processes that were breaking my ability to reduce calories. 

There’s still side effects and what not with it. I usually get a bit nauseous 16-48 hours after the injection and more tired during that time, but I’d much rather trade those for not feeling awful every afternoon.

I was on wegovy to lose some weight that I had a hard time getting off due to gaining a bunch from a side effect of another medication I was on and like others said, you literally feel full for longer and it slows down digestion, even just thinking about food when I was full made me feel queasy, it’s a trip once it starts working and you notice it. It also made me drink less alcohol because of feeling full, it’s pretty wild. I got down to my normal weight and stopped using it but it works and you start to notice it pretty quickly

Also impulse control.  They eat what they want and are allowed to.  Not the only factor, but part of it.

What were your side affects?

I found this video to be informative on the topic. I watched the original a few months ago, and then the more recent update.  It does a good job of explaining how the meds work in simpler terms.  I can't vouch for accuracy, but this channel is generally well accepted on YouTube.

I mean... that's not true. It's covered by insurance if a doctor perscribes it and that's still only for diabetics (so same situation as the previous poster). 

If you're paying for it out of pocket (using it just for weight loss), it is still like 100-150€/month. That's WAY LESS than in the USA, but not free.

a full dose for wegovy is aroun 1700usd and most insurances still charge a couple hundos unless you got some good shit.

Yeah but it’s harder to get a prescription.

It’s based on the BMI. For a 6ft man, your must be 293lbs or heavier and must have failed to lose at least 5% of your weight in the last 6 months following a diet 

(At least in France)

So you’re spreading it out over monthly instalments?

Yup, I've seen one or two dudes on instagram with down syndrome who lift heavy fucking weights, and they can get fairly built, but if a non-DS individual did the same routine they'd be significantly larger

Pigs actually don't sweat. That's why they need to roll in mud to cool off. (try this at your own risk)

The appetite suppression I got was from the constant nausea, even at the lowest dose. Threw up violently the first night. Then I got anxiety over throwing up at the slightest wave of nausea. Stopped the food noise because I was constantly stressed about throwing up. Wished it worked, just not for me.

Being dead means I don't fucking care anymore.

It’s only the summers that are dry from the rain shadow effect.  
  
That's just because it doesn't rain in the summer in California. Since I grew up here I thought that's what it was like everywhere, I was shocked when I realized it rains in the summer just about everywhere else, if not *more* than the winter.

Imma try to actually ELI5. Or maybe closer to ELI10. Inside your body, two main hormones are always playing on a seesaw:

* Ghrelin (The Hunger Monster): This hormone lives in your stomach. When your stomach is empty, it grumbles loudly and tells your brain, "Go eat right now!"

* Leptin (The Fuel Gauge): This hormone lives in your body fat. It tells your brain, "Hey, we have plenty of stored energy, you can stop eating and burn fuel normally."

In a broken control room, the brain becomes deaf to Leptin. Even if the body has plenty of energy stored up, the brain can't hear the "stop eating" signal. It thinks the body is starving, so it keeps the Hunger Monster (Ghrelin) turned all the way up.

When people try to fix this by just eating less, the brain panics. It makes Ghrelin even louder, which is why sticking to a diet is so incredibly hard.

The GLP-1 medicine steps into the control room and fixes the broken buttons: It traps the Hunger Monster: The medicine tells your body to stop making so much Ghrelin after you eat. It turns off that constant, annoying "food noise" in your head.

It helps the brain hear again: The medicine makes sure the brain can finally see and hear Leptin. This lets the brain know it is safe, so it stops panicking and stops demanding extra snacks.

Metabolic sickness is also like a giant traffic jam inside your blood. Normally, when you eat, sugar enters your blood, and a helper called insulin parks that sugar inside your muscles to be used as energy.

In a broken system, the muscles lock their doors. The sugar gets stuck in the blood traffic jam, which can make you very sick, and the liver accidentally creates even more unwanted sugar.  The GLP-1 medicine clears the traffic jam by doing this:

1. Unlocking the doors: It forces the muscles to open up and pull the sugar out of the blood to use as active energy.

2. Stopping the liver leak: It tells the liver to stop dumping extra, unneeded sugar into the blood.

3. Calming the body down: It cools down the internal stress and swelling caused by the sugar traffic jam.

So basically, GLP-1 medication doesn't just give someone more willpower. It actually rewires the broken control room so their body can manage hunger and energy exactly the way it was always supposed to.

Not quite a couch potato, as I work a full time labor intensive job and swim twice a week. I once broached the subject to my GP regarding a slightly elevated A1C, but he wasn't too keen on going right to that before doing other stuff. I guess under 26 BMI is a little early too.

If you are on GLP-1s, are you exercising? And if so, more or less than before?

The pistol is cheaper. I bought my ammo a long time ago.

Do not search for reason within the halls of Reddit. Often the downvotes rain for reasons unknowable, and all one can do is stand strong in the face of injustice.

Probably used up our allowance now, it's all downhill from here.

Keep it up! I started last October, and I'm down 72lbs!

This. Users reported suppression/removal of the "food noise" in their heads after starting these GLP-1s.

lol what a scumbag thing to say

What's the matter with you, kid? You told me this stream was shallow!

I’m on it so I can give you my personal experience. 

It’s “will power” in a shot. It turns off all my desires to have unhealthy things. Alcohol, junk food, fried foods. I don’t want them. It doesn’t feel like I’m restricting myself. I simply don’t want them. There’s no sense of loss or restriction. 

Once those feelings disappeared (within a day of my first shot) I had a lot of empty space in my head. I didn’t realize how much I thought about food. Now I think about other things. Like working out and getting enough protein. 

I have been in good shape/weight several times in my life. But my self reward for achieving those goals was to eat cheat meals and drink alcohol and with time you relax the will power and get fat again. 

This medicine just turns the noise off and I simply have no desire to seek out unhealthy things. I consider more of a mental health medication than anything else. It’s truly amazing and my words don’t do it justice for the life changing effects I feel.

someone already replied correcting your understanding of the climate in this era, but i want to add that there are lots of plants that live submerged in water. they have adapted to that environment, the same way all terrestrial plants have adapted to their own.

Don't you just love having to choose between healthy behavior and abject poverty or going on a sugar bender for a few months and potentially doing permanent damage to yourself just to meet an arbitrary number?

You’re wrong up and down. Enzymes do increase during physical activity, that would be necessary to maintain elevated levels like heart rate. But that’s not at all what I am referring to. Suppose you measure the rate of enzyme activity between when you were are obese and sedentary. Then suppose you measure enzyme activity a year later after beginning diet and exercise. You will see this jump in enzyme activity. Your body is now putting less energy in to consume energy. In other words, your metabolism actually becomes more efficient at burning energy. It’s like if you switched from driving a Corolla to driving a Prius. Not much has changed as far as the big picture is concerned. 

Actual studies have shown that if you stop taking GLP 1, you will regain the weight. All of this means that the number of calories you need to consume depends more on your metabolism than on weight alone. An obese person who has been dieting and exercising will need to consume less food than someone who has maintained that weight for a long time and has similar body composition. For example, if you and another person train the same regimen, but the other person lost 50 lbs in the near past, that person has to actually consume less calories than you. Because GLP is very recent, there is no insight into how long it takes, if ever for the body to permanently adjust a certain a metabolic rate. But the science says the future is gloom because the part that GLP targets is actually permanently rewired to food indulgence.

There is a LOT of water moving in very quickly. They're not exactly benign when they have enough force to move a freight train.

Forcefully dismantle the right wing propaganda machine that has brainwashed a third of Americans to vote against their own self interest and prop up the pedophile billionaire parasite class.

What are your insurance premiums like? Tack that on to the annual coat of your meds.

But you're kind of missing the point. We shouldn't necessarily forgive people because they don't fit a standard body type, which is I think is what you're arguing. People should examine their own caloric requirements per their conditions and adapt accordingly. I need 1500 calories per day, someone else might require 2000. I think our packages mess things up for a lot of people because everyone thinks it's okay to eat 2000 calories a day. A lot of people need much less than that to maintain a healthy weight

You may need to be careful, but the drug also curbs cravings.

I pay out of pocket for it, I'm the US, and I only pay $250 a month. A little pricy but not that bad. 

It's only super expensive if you want to see the word Ozimpic on the bottle. Lots of other GLP-1's exist for significantly cheaper.

So if instead of a bomb Tsarnaev put a gun to the boys head. And a sniper saw it and had a clear shot and could kill him before the boy was killed. Would that sniper be just as bad because killing is always wrong?  Also if we had a murder and violent crime rate as low as other western countries I might think differently.

I pay $175/mo for compounded semaglutide! ($99/3mo for telehealth visit and $150/mo for the drug)

Ya my rich cousin owns like 4 liquor stores and would just laugh when pulled over. 

I can't imagine not wanting better trained drivers on the road. I feel like 5-15 percent of the population doesn't even use turn signals when they move their death machines over.

White/Brown Adipose Tissue

The metal also has a natural charge. That is what capacitance is.

Capacitance the ability of a system to _store_ electric charge. It is created when two conductors are separated by an dielectric. The charge is coming from your phone's battery, not your finger.

They became caught up in the orbit of the star(s) when the star(s) formed. Being previously gravitationally bound in the presolar nebula does not contradict this.

Haven’t been around super long

I mean.. Ozempic first hit the market for diabetics in 2017. The phase 3 trial for it started in 2014. And that’s not talking about any prior data.

So… for your mental health and future happiness, either get to running a fine tooth comb through your diet to avoid operating on assumptions/old data … or get to the doctor.

Either way, best of luck!

Why are they increasing your dosage of the current is working already?

I asked the doctor who amputated my dad's leg, and he said about 60lbs. So I guess you can look into it!

And for the record most women don't need anything close to 2000 calories per day! That's for a big man! 

I'm not perfect but I count calories and I'm a 5' 3" woman that weighs 125. I eat 1100-1500 calories per day to maintain that. I think a lot of women think they can eat 2000 calories per day because that's what packages say, and you cannot. That's an average, and probably an average from 40 years ago when people were more active and fit. It takes very little calories for the average woman to get through the day.

For what it's worth, these drugs aren't as new as they feel. Ozempic was originally developed in the 90s and reached clinical trials for diabetes treatment in the 00s. So while their usage as anti-obesity drugs is fairly new, there are still lots of people who have been taking them for decades at this point.

I, like any mature adult, have already long ago come to the unfortunate conclusion that killing another human is only sometimes wrong.  Self defense, and in some cases euthanasia, abortion, and war are all times that many people think killing somebody is sometimes ok. I would love to live in your fairy tale where right and wrong are so simple. But I don’t. Also there are fates worse and more cruel than death. Life without parole is one of those.

The way someone looks in a photograph depends on the focal length of the lens and the distance to the subject.

No problem, I just remember studying those two in college when I took a criminal justice course on the death penalty. It really opened my eyes to the problems with capital punishment.

In Germany they pull up next the the car and use a truck with a folding crane to lift the car straight up and swing it over and onto the bed of the truck. No dollies, no tilt and slide flat beds, no problems with tight parallel park cars - just lift and go.

And willpower is a finite resource. If you have insulin resistance, your body is always screaming at you that you're starving. You can hold out for awhile hitting a caloric deficit, but pretty much everyone eventually gives in.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Straightforward or factual queries are not allowed on ELI5. ELI5 is meant for simplifying complex concepts (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

That reminded me of this crazy story of a dachshund surviving on an Australian island for 529 days after everyone assumed it had died. Really cute story. But definitely not the expected outcome. You are correct that domestic animals have no place in the wild and don’t have the instincts or breeding to survive.

Freaking seriously. I made the active decision to lose weight during covid, got down from 210 to 155 and was happy there. Then I transitioned. On an estrogen dominant endocrine system it proved WAY harder to lose and keep the weight off, and now I'm at 215 :/ I'm making another attempt to get back into Weight Loss mode but it's a lot harder to come in with "CO" meaningfully higher than "CI" now, like, a LOT harder. At my general activity level I need to be consuming <1300 most days, which just seems impossible in a world where a sandwich pushes 450.

Gardened plants are generally not growing in the climate and soil type that they evolved for. They also often had had their ability to regulate water uptake and store water bred out of them

Wild plants have evolved for the particular climate and soil types where they are native. They develop traits like deep root systems and the ability to store water so that they can get through periods of inconsistent water availability

its wrong to call it just the will power.  There can be biological factors at play that make your body tell you that you need to eat.

At least for tirzepatide, it's a weekly injection.

I’m type 2 diabetic and on Mounjaro. Was on Ozempic before that. Blood sugar became within acceptable parameters. Didn’t lose weight on either until I started exercising. Both suppressed appetite but it was the moderate exercise that worked for weight loss.

Fault, or double-fault if twice in a row which gives a point to the receiver.

You pay for premiums though. And $5 is also more than $0

Correct! Hyperthyroidism flips it,  losing weight too fast, heart racing, anxiety through the roof, and barely sleeping. Neither option is a good time.

You can get "cash coupons" (my pharmacy applies it automatically) so I pay $299 a month for my Wegovy (pill form).  Some people also get GLP-1s through compounding pharmacies (normally used to make custom mixes of medications) and that can be cheaper but I don't know really know more than that.

I have to self-inject subcutaneously every month. Speed of injection is a key factor for me. If I take it super slow, it's almost pain-free. If the whole lot goes in quickly, it is like a wasp sting.

My doctor could get me at best $500 for it direct from the manufacturer until I became diabetic and insurance would cover it. They wouldn't cover it when I was prediabetic and wanted to PREVENT diabetes. They wouldn't cover it for it helping with autoimmune related inflammation, which it also helps with. 

Tl;dr it can cost as much as $2,000 a month and insurance companies are greedy morons who care more about temporary costs than saving money longterm.

Except I'm immensely unhappy and my loaded pistol looking significantly more appetizing every single day says otherwise.

lol!

I don’t know this subject specifically. 

Just by the title I assumed we were talking about literally dirty air, IE exhaust fumes, and was speculating that the exhaust has less oxygen and thus was starving the combustion cycle in the engine.

With a specific diagnosis (diabetes for mounjaro/obstructive sleep apnea for zepbound) it's $25 for a three month supply.  
  
Without a diagnosis, for people that just want to use it for weight reduction, it it $1300 a month. Absolutely fucking insane.

There won't be any legal way to export it to the US from here, but there isn't anything stopping Americans from coming up and getting their prescriptions filled here.

Australia we pay the standard prescription price of $25, unless you have a health care card or reach a set number of prescriptions per year, then it’s around $7

Gone. It's insane how effective it is. But, if you're a couch potato, it can be a problem. You have to stay active with weight bearing exercise and have appropriate protein intake.

The epstein class has convinced a big chunk of the population that it's better for ordinary people to go bankrupt paying for healthcare than it is for the epstein class to be mildly inconvenienced by taxes.

My dude. 

I've been to camps where the people I paid a bunch of money to monitored my intake monitored my intake. 

I've paid trainers to help me with this. I live in a town of 5000 people, it's *really* hard to lie about what I'm up to in an ecosystem this size. 

Like I said, it's cool if you choose to not believe me, but people whose entire lively hood is *this*? 

They also don't have answers for me.

It's why a lot of countries have abolished it completely

Only if you're uninsured, I haven't paid more than $5 for my meds in years

Unicode only allows 17*2^16 code points.

Lucky you. Do you have any suggestions to convince our politicians that universal healthcare isn’t communism, and would be a benefit to our population? Istg, they ignore every scrap of evidence that our population is so much worse off in health than like, every other first-world country, and actively declining, even as we still proclaim to be “the best”

And for everything else, there's FontAwesome.

Duke Nukem 3d didn't bother with camera tricks, they just replicated the geometry and sprites but reversed. It worked really well. A modern game could use the same technique that Portal 1 and 2 uses for rendering portals which is to say a pov camera and geometry math but... developers chose not to because it's actually pretty complicated to do. Not that it'd be super resource intensive unless there multiple mirrors that can see each other.

They have been a life changing drug for me.  I struggled my 30s to lose weight and keep it off.  I always felt like I was starving no matter how I ate.  Im now back to the weight I was when I got married 20 years ago and can keep up with my kids somewhat!  I hope I can get off them eventually but thats a problem for tomorrow me.

Would you survive if you were wearing scuba gear?

Semaglutide (wegovy/ozempic) lost its patent protection in Canada starting this year (through pure stupidity on the part of Novo Nordisk's lawyers). The first generics just went on sale for $100 CDN/month, but prices will drop further, as there will be five or six generic versions available by end of year.

Your body will still need X amount of calories to function, in addition to the mind and all its processes (Y). X will always be at least ~200 unless it’s literally just bed, make meals, bed, repeat. + Y = 1400.

Eating 1300-1500 will keep a maintained weight. Becoming over/underweight takes a fair percentage more/less. That’s a gradual process that your excrement will show before your body will.

Underlying health conditions are real and if this isn’t your reality please see a doctor. It shouldn’t be wildly different to this, unless something has been confirmed.

Yea I definitely get “cheating” is a lot harder for women. If you want that treat, you probably have to skip or shrink a meal, if you’re after the perfectly maintained body. A couple days a week won’t ever be noticed.

Same - a little early to say it's working well for me, but I feel ilke it's helping! I don't have problems with 'food noise' or massively overeating, but just dealing with the insulin resistance ought to help me a lot!

My dad is on it and he has said is has cut down on him wanting to drink.

Obviously its just one, but still interesting.

I am type two diabetic but not diabetic enough for my insurance to cover it (last a1C 6.3 and they won’t cover lower than 6.5)

Employers want to hire, but not pay a living wage or pay people what they're worth. So people don't take jobs that give them what they need to live and employers can't fill openings.

Never said I couldn’t eat or drink. I can eat. I just get fuller faster and my “desire” for food is down.

It also wasn’t just about the lying, plenty of organisations bought bonds that on paper were risky, simply because it was mortgages that underlaid those bonds - and they thought there was “no way” the US housing market would collapse. “Millions of Americans” would have to default on those loans before they collapsed. The problem is: millions did.

I apologize if this has been asked. Is GLP1 associated with constipation because it slows digestion? I’m genuinely just curious. I just had a baby and pregnancy definitely did that by slowing digestion.

We pay for *everything* in America.

Cutting all the way through with a knife leaves a smooth surface vs the nooks and crannies one gets if it's only partially sliced and use fork or fingers to finish separation.

So while cutting does not "magically fill in" the nooks and crannies, they're not really made at all when sliced all the way through.

It helps with hormones and food addictions. It reduces how much you think about food.

Wasn’t there someone who survived a tsunami by swimming out to sea? He basically avoided all the debris and just bobbed around until the water started to recede and got picked up by a boat.

\[louder than you\] I wish I was high on potenuse.

It removed the noise.

Now I'm off it, the whole food symphony is back

I found an easier solution to boredom eating, eat more whole fruit (ie not processed). Hits the craving without making me fat again.

I think this might be true, because I never used to sweat a lot. as a kid and into my 20s, I was always an athlete and never really sweat that much. 

then I moved to the desert and continued athletic training throughout the next 10 years. I noticed that I was always drenched in sweat and needed at least 2 showers a day, but thought it was just because its extra hot out in the desert. 

but then I moved back to the New England and I noticed that I still sweat like a pig even with the slightest effort and even in cold temperature, like walking through snow or something. its immediate soaking wet sweat like I was still in the desert. 

my body reacts like i'm going to over heat all the time. I did have heat stroke twice while out in the desert, and they say that also causes you to respond more to heat after the fact.

I...don't think they did. They were cycling parallel to the water, and even if they quickly changed direction, that water came up too fast :(

I would imagine so, but I also think that my life will be much longer without me carrying around the extra 80 pounds…

I'm curious how long it will take for the generic version to make its way down to the US from Canada.

Apparently a single dose/pen (this is one month's supply?) is around CAD$95 or USD$70

Real world much of our time was spent trying to get them to drink supplements and high calorie food with more serious conditions. Hollywood loves a stereotype to move the story though.

Its funny bodybuilders are starting to explore them because even in a caloric surplus it can make your bulks cleaner.

The problem for women is that the margins are so low, it's easy to either go over your calorie limit or fall into malnutrition. For my activity level (very low) my weight-loss calorie level is probably 1200c or less. But turns out, the amount of calories required for emotions and other brain processes to function correctly is... 1200c! So if I'm unable to increase my activity level (which would be the first option), I can either prioritize my physical health or my mental health.

Plus, at 2000c+, guys can eat a cookie or two and still be well within their calorie limit. A woman can throw their day off with a single cookie, which makes dieting much more miserable.

Some people do. I am able to over eat until I can't move anymore and don't have the energy to sit up. 10 minutes later I'm standing in the fridge looking for snacks. 

For some reason my day goes 1 of two ways. 

Through will power I simply don't eat until 8pm. No problems at all and I go to bed at 9 having consumed a single moderately caloric dense meal. 

I eat at any point in the day, I can no longer not eat. If I eat once in a day, I'll eat every hour after without being able to calm my cravings. So if I have breakfast, I'm also having a snack, lunch, another snack, dinner, and probably two more snacks before I go to bed. 

If I just say no to that first internal "I should eat something" I can go all day no problem. I lost 28 lbs in 45 days just eating 1 meal per day but then I get to a decent weight and think maintenance mode time now I can have lunch some days. And then 60 days later I'm up 30 lbs. It's terrible and I think maybe I should ask my dr about GLPs

You pay for these stuff in America?? They’re free in most of the EU (for the most part)

Hey I’m not trying to prove you a liar or anything. I get that it’s tedious and that eyeballing it feels like it should be enough.

I’m just pointing out that the mystery of inverted thermal dynamics localized entirely inside your own body might be explained by something mundane or perhaps unexpected. Like, ‘oh, the measuring cups or scale I bought at that dollar store is off by 30% and I didn’t know’.

It sounds like a problem you’re happy to live with, you sound active and well fed and that’s a great problem to have! :)

"Willpower" is not some magical power all humans can use to do anything they want. Just cause it takes "willpower" to do something doesn't mean it's equally easy for everyone. 

I'm letting other people answer the scientific parts of it but from a mental health perspective, things like satiety, hunger pangs, impulsivity, fullness, those all contribute to someone's ability to "will" themselves to go on calorie defecit. I have ADHD and used to eat 4+ times a day to cope with the fact my brain doesn't make enough dopamine on its own. I'm still looking for the right meds but one thing every med has done for me so far is reduce my appetite. I literally went from eating 4 times a day to having to force myself to eat at least once a day. Even I didn't believe it could until it happened. 

If you're someone who has to consciously remind themselves to eat as a natural state, I'm sure it looks like a "willpower" issue when you see other people who eat all the time. But that's really not it. It's all physiological.

Yeah I think one aspect that is really undersold is how much these medications punish you for over eating or eating junk food. Burps, reflux, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pains, etc. BUT if you stick to a healthy diet you feel fine. I feel like that has helped stop me from making bad choices many times even if I was hungry.

They do return. I found however that I was more aware of the cravings and it was easier to ignore.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #1 of ELI5 is to *be civil*.

Breaking rule 1 is not tolerated.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

Yeah, that makes sense. I wonder about that stuff with ADHD meds, when the doc says they are addicting and habit forming. 

Yet, there is no alternative, tolerance going up will inevitably make the dosage go up, there is no permanent cure and this is all that works. 

So... what does it matter that it's addictive? 

I just wonder about these GLPs as they haven't been around super long to do comprehensive studies on long term effects, so I just keep going to the gym, overeating, going to the gym, overeating and constantly being 15 or 20 lbs overweight

My father had been on it for 9 months. Has more energy and feels better but hasn’t lost a single pound.

So if I take an anti-diarrhea medicine, would that lead to weight loss since it slows down digestion?

You asked what the downvotes were about. It's about asking questions that you can answer yourself.

Uh... no, I trust that you thought you were eating 1K calories for sure, and that's fine. If you still can't lose weight then what you're eating now can be looked at. But when you're saying your body violated physics, that's no longer a matter of "trust me bro", the same way it's not a matter of trusting someone if they told me they were in two places at once, or that they teleported to the moon

Same. I'm actually glad I am diabetic because this shit is amazing, but abso-fucking-lutely unaffordable without a diagnosis that will get an insurance company to cover it.  
  
Like... more expensive than my mortgage. The American healthcare system is a fucking joke.

Your dose is too high. why would you increase dose if you can't even eat or drink water?

If the doctor say so and you can control de side effects.
Otherwise is to manage your sugar level and weight really fast, while you change your diet and start exercising. 
After that you ditch it. We don't know the long term side effects. 
Stop eating processed foods and sugars and move a little. That's the best option.

Please read this entire message

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

ELI5 is not meant for any question you may have. Questions that are narrow in nature are not complex concepts, and usually require only a yes/no or otherwise straightforward answer.

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. 


If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.

Do you know if that is long term effect or if those urges/cravings return once you’ve stopped taking the drug? 

It’s been interesting reading about how when a lot of overweight people stop taking it, they start putting on weight again. There’s various factors but seems like people who blame their physical appearance for their unhappiness (when the reasons are more than skin deep), and do not address those other factors, tend to gain a lot of weight back. 

Wondering how a bad eating habit like late night snacking can be broken with time on Ozempic vs falling back into old habits once you’re no longer taking it?

Interesting, thanks for the answer.

people are dying from heat here.

It's supposed to be good for cutting down on alcohol cravings as well.

Possibly. Some people do, and some take it for a couple years or long enough to develop better habits and tastes that can make long term lifestyle change possible. But it'll vary person to person. My conclusion is if I DO need to take it for life, it's totally worth it for the QOL and health improvement. Plus I'm saving more money in food costs and long term healthcare than I'm spending on the drug, so I don't see taking it long term as anything besides sticking myself with a tiny needle once a week and reaping the benefits.

"Injectible willpower" is not the best way to put it. 

Let's say there's something easy to avoid, like randomly clapping your hands. It's really easy to avoid it because why the heck would you do it? Now imagine I stand next to you at work and every 5 minutes, if you haven't clapped since the last time, I start whispering in your ear. "Hey. Hey. You need to clap. It's time to clap. Clap clap clapper. Clap clap clapper. Hooooooweeee it's time to clap." Realistically you'll probably strangle me, and that's fair. But it's also easy to give in, clap, and buy a little bit of relief. 

That's hunger cravings for a lot of people. We're surrounded by food in a way that's never been true for any animals in history. So it's really, really easy to get in a habit of overeating or snacking for fun instead of whether we're hungry. Long-term that can muck up some of our body's regulation of hunger in a way that if we decide to skip a "for fun" snack, the brain starts acting like we're really hungry even when we're not. That's me being annoying. Eating makes me go away.

Willpower CAN achieve that, but keep in mind hunger is a survival instinct. If your system is messed up enough or you have the wrong genes, you'll get in a state where you can't focus on anything unless you get a snack. You'll start to feel listless and tired. You'll get thirsty because your brain knows if you get a drink it might be soda or you might get a snack. "Hey. Hey bro. There's snacks in the break room. Just one man. Maybe a granola bar. A soda? Man, remember how good soda tastes? Let me replay some memories. What's that? You're in a meeting? Boooooring. Good luck staying awake. You know what'd give you a boost of energy? A nice, tall glass of Ovaltine™. Man, remember how good you felt the last time you drank it? Nice, cold, refreshing. Oh, look at that. You're sweating. Ha, my blood sugar must be low, ahh, I'm having trouble regulating my temperature. You know what would help? Ice cream. Yeaaaaah. That's the stuff.'

These drugs work like getting your work to recognize me and not let me enter the building. When I'm not over your shoulder annoying you, you aren't going to even think about clapping. That's how hunger is supposed to be: if you aren't hungry your brain shouldn't be bothering you about food. These drugs help regulate your hunger signals so your brain's only treating meals like a matter of survival when they ARE a matter of survival. 

Willpower is a lot easier when your brain isn't trying to break its own will.

As much as*

So yes, it is true. Unless you think you are the exception, it is true. People have a hard time understanding gaussian distributions though.

Switched from Ozempic to Mounjaro.  Not losing weight.  Using a scientific method to control for one variable:  the med.  Amount and type of exercise (little to none) has been constant and not changed since before starting Ozempic several years ago.  

Cravings reduced.  Weight has not increased.

It's been some years, and I've gotten rid of said apps. I literally cannot show receipts at this point and I apologize for it. 

Literally all I have is "trust me bro". And I understand the lack of trust this will garner.

It can also go too fast and you lose weight, along with other symptoms.

Chipotle bowls are the worst. I'm like, "but I love you burrito bowl! I just don't want to finish you, I'm sorry."

That was my sticking point at first, but I'm already taking my psych meds for the rest of my life.

Well they’re no fox and friends, yep

OP was only asking about weight loss - not about other potential health benefits besides losing weight.

So the answer is that the reason people taking Ozempic type drugs lose weight is that the drugs help people eat less. It doesn’t make people burn more calories. It makes people less interested in food.  Not as hungry and fills up faster. 

If people ate the same way that they ate when they were on Ozempic even when they weren’t taking the drug, then they’d lose the same weight.

I’m on 1mg so far with very little appetite suppression.  Getting disappointed.

He played in the PGA for the Indiana Spurs.  Helluva a talent that kid was.

Since August last year, full dose since October/November

I had different experiences between semaglutide and Tirzepitide. Semaglutide settled the noise and squashed my appetite within hours of the first does but the side effects were too rough. I switched to Tirzepitide and it took a couple weeks before I really noticed a change but it's been an overall much more efficective medication and long term solution for me.

Some people do tell depressed people that! And it's just as annoying. Like I'm choosing to be miserable on purpose ...

I wish I was high on potenuse.

At some point earth's atmosphere had no oxygen, just nitrogen and CO2. Then some idiotic lifeforms invented photosynthesis and started ripping the carbon and out of the air, intoxicating all life form and causing the largest extinctionof all times (google oxygen catastrophe).

Bottomline: we have tons of organic carbon because plants ripped the whole atmosphere of it. Most of that carbon ended up in coal and oil.

There is also non organic carbon in minerals- much more of it than the organic/atmospheric carbon, in fact...

The metal does not have to be charged. 

The metal also has a natural charge. That is what capacitance is.

All I can think is how much money I'm wasting throwing it away .

My baby grew 20% in one year. Assuming that growth rate, he'll be 13 metres tall by adulthood

You were only eating 1K calories? That seems very suspiciously low. I'd again like to say that something is off here and your body isn't an exception to physics. If you think you were doing 3K out to 1K in and you weren't losing weight, the numbers were wrong instead of the basic physics being wrong.

Could you tell us what a 1K calorie day looked like in terms of what you ate?

They’ve also found that addictive behaviors of all sorts, including gambling, are reduced on GLP-1s.

Exactly.  I hate that I usually have to barf the day after my shot and I have to work harder than normal to take a good poop but I think that is my cross to bare to stay a normal size.  It will SUCK if i have to be on it the rest of my life but it helps with my blood sugar so much (I’m not diabetic but would get frequent hypoglycemia).  The cost is a pain the ass; it’s $330 a month through a health spa and my family doctor also prescribes wegovey and that has a $199 coupon that works.  I feel like i stock up on it.

Thanks for the fish…

When i was looking into it there were 3 things which I remembered if people asked how it worked:  
(1) **Appetite suppression**: it reduces hunger signals (food noises) to the brain increasing feelings of fullness so you naturally eat less (2) **Slows gastric emptying** which delays how quickly food leaves the stomach and goes throught the digestive system keeping you fuller for longer after meals (3) **Reduces food reward** which lowers the brain’s pleasure response to high-calorie foods decreasing cravings and overeating/binging  
i also mentioned that it had been used and around for 20 years so even though the name of various GLP-1s are  new to most people in the last couple of years, it's not brand new and is tested

Yeah no I was just confused because in the same paragraph you said "different not higher or lower" then "takes more energy"

So would the idea be to take them for the rest of your life?

How long have you been on it?

Supply is certainly not limited.

Your question read as if you were confused by the fact that it could boil at a higher temp at the same time as freezing at a lower temp. To me, it sounded like you thought it should be thermodynamically impossible, which is why the response you got addresses how sterics also play a role.

Yes, it takes more energy to boil something if it boils at a higher temperature. Most people are likely to assume that to be obvious though.

I had to wait until I hit the 0.5 dose. The 0.25 would only last about a day.

What is WAT and BAT?

Yep, sauces and dressings are way more calorie dense than people expect too. Sometimes people are confused that they're not losing weight eating salads and it's that kind of add-on that's getting them (or cheese)

Your body adjusts energy expenditures base on incoming energy. Glp1 also seems to trick your body into acting like you’re eating more than you are. 

If you take two people with the same diet and exercise, the person on glp1 will lose more weight, maintain more muscle, have reduced inflammation, more perceived energy, less brain fog from low reduced eating. 

The body is a dynamic system that adjusts to the situation. Messing there with glp1 hormone makes the body think it’s got more energy than it does and the body reacts as such. It’s not a huge difference, but it is cumulative over time.

no, it would actually make you sweat more because sweat is your body cooling.  if you're not adapted to heat, then your sweating isn't as efficient.  so when you heat train, you sweat more, you sweat more, you cool off faster/better, you cool off faster/better means you can handle heat for longer periods of time.

Weight loss has always been, and will always be, about calories in vs calories out.

These medications regulate a few things, but the weight loss comes from decreased consumption. The decreased consumption is due to the regulating.

With self discipline, you can achieve similar weight loss without the medication.

Weight training is advised when on GLP1s, as long as you are healthy enough for it. You won’t lose muscle if you are building muscle. But if you can maintain a healthy weight without medication, obviously that’s best both from a health perspective and because the supply of these meds is limited and they are expensive!

I don't give a shit about calories counting. When I spent years tracking shit, if I cooked with something, I've I consumed anything, I tracked it an even assumed I was erring on the side of caution. 

My daily deficit, according to trackers, was ~3k burnt to 1k consumed.

My question regarding down syndrome, is why do I see so many more white people with the issue? I really don't remember seeing blacks, asians, Mexicans, etc. with down syndrome. I know there ARE, but if you were go google "Down syndrome" and click on pictures, I bet most of the images are of white people.

A photo that has always stuck with me is one of a 2x4 thrown through a refrigerator.

So the understanding of "calories in vs calories out" being single important thing about weight loss, on the most basic level, is sound.  

The issue is the majority of people who follow this concept dont actually understand that reading calories on a label is often quite inaccurate, and also varies pretty dramatically from person to person.  

Hormonal response: foods that have a high glycemic index will be absorbed by the body, and stored into fat more intentionally than the same calorie amount at a lower glycemic index.  

Processed food: foods still existing in their original fibers are going to be excreted in greater amount than processed foods. So 500 calories of twinkies are going to be absorbed by your body more than 500 calories of cabbage.  

Food Composition: Protein lowers hormones that induce hunger more than carbohydrates. It is why diets like Keto can be so effective for so many people because it eliminates the macro that induces hunger the most: carbohydrates.  

Gut Biome: Your food is primarily broken down by gut bacteria. A robust and healthy gut biome will absorb calories differently than an unhealthy gut. An unhealthy guy results in not only absorbing more calories (which seems weird, yea) but also converting far more of those calories into fat than into other body materials. 

Metabolic adaption: part of why so many people lose weight and then relapse is because your body is actively fighting against it. If you hit 350 pounds, and stay there for a couple of years, your body develops a new baseline. When you begin to lose weight, your body will trigger a flood of different hormones to fight that weight loss. Your metabolism will actually slow down, your body will suppress movement or fidgeting that you typically do when not in a calorie deficit. So your body will actively work to spend less calories when you exercise, and will use every applicable hormone at its disposal to focus your brain to eat food, and trigger your body to absorb food more efficiently (slowing metabolism).  

Genetics: Genetics make up about 75% of what your body sets as a "baseline" when it comes to body composition. 2 men of different Genetic backgrounds could eat precisely the same thing for 2 years and both look very different. Not to mention one could be much hungrier than the other because their genetic background is telling them they are not esting enough. So even you are sitting at certain weight for a while, your body may set a new baseline,  but the degree of which that baseline will completely suppress hunger vs still have a bit of "food nagging" in the background is due to Genetics.  

So if youre larger and youve been confronted by people stating its because youre too lazy, or just have less willpower than them, or making excuses etc, they really have no clue what their talking about and often are speaking from a place of great genetic privilege. 

I could go in further about how sleep, stress and cortisol levels impact how your body balances hormones but to loop back to the question about GLP1 medication. GLP1 is the hormone in your body that says "Yo, youve eaten enough because insulin is on its way. You can stop eating". Well this hormone impacts how much insulin you produce, how fast your body is pushing food through the system and how your brain interprets....well... hunger. Here is the crazy thing. Studies are showing that it also impacts your gut biome, promoting the increase of certain good bacteria and the repressing the development of bad ones. It also seems to promote a much higher degree of visceral fat burning (the fat around organs) during weight loss than if you were to do it "naturally".

Yeah that’s true. 

Cast iron is good for the ways (sliding precision surfaces) on metalworking lathes for example. They actually sometimes still hand scrape the cast iron surfaces with a tool that vaguely resembles a big chisel. They can get really flat surfaces with little ditches in them that allows oil to flow over the ways. Amazing what they did back before computer controlled machines.

I always wondered if someone can get similar results just starving themselves at the same levels ozempic patients do.

Figure out your body then.

Are you a man or a woman? Do you sit at home all day, or exercise daily? How much? Exactly how much? Figure out the calorie burn, Google will always have the calculation.

Average man is 2000-3000 per day, very lazy to highly active.

When you’ve figured out what YOU should burn every day, based on just exercise and the gender average then you can start tweaking over time.

Very, very simply, if you burn 2500 calories, eating ~2500 calories will keep you fairly well maintained. 

If you eat 2000 calories, whilst burning 2500 calories, you will always lose weight. If you don’t, you’re not burning 2500 calories. Re-calculate.

I'm not a medical professional, but based on what friends have told me uncontrollable diarrhea seems to be a contributing factor.

Doctors are expensive. 

Being a tumor isn't lol.

Same. That noise in my head constantly thinking about the next tasty bite died the day I started taking GLPs. It was such a relief

I still snack a bit at night, but not eating junk during the day more than makes up for it. I also don't want to eat nearly as much. I'm also stop eating much faster when I'm full.  You still have to put in the work stay healthy and exercise, but it is much, much easier. 

It seems like it was just a chemical imbalance, and once it is fixed everything is better. It is like the kid who thought they were stupid until they got an ADHD diagnosis, or the people who were suicidal until they got on meds/therapy. The medication doesn't solve the problems, but it does make them much more solvable.

My partner doesn’t understand that a handful of nuts or a ‘healthy splash’ of olive oil is a lurking calorie explosion. Sometimes it really is as simple as ‘oh well that doesn’t count! It’s healthy! while you eat a whole avacado every other day.

I mean...yeah? 

Like...I'm sorry you're choosing not to believe me. But I've hired fucking life coaches and the whole 9 yards to keep me accountable, and literally none of them have an answer other than "I dunno dude. Sorry". 

I don't give a shit if I'm downvoted or whatever, this is my entire life. I know it's real regardless of some sideways reddit comment.

This is an easy to watch video on the subject.  Easy to follow and backed by research:

Aye, a full foot taller but only ten pounds heavier, everyone I meet from high school or whatever is shocked I haven't put on weight like (most of) the rest of them. But in any get-together the number one priority is "what do we eat next" although it's the furthest thing from my mind, instead thinking of activities or a nice quiet place to chat and relax instead of stuffing gob.

Ramen and pizza, popcorn and canned soups. I eat with my nose, so to speak, more than anything so I'm rather just load something with herbs and spices to get a satisfying meal rather than having something nutritious, hearty, or downright filling up on quantity.

I wonder when it fell out of favor

Something is wrong here because it's true that your body isn't literally an exception to physics. Either you're burning less than 3K calories a day or you're underestimating the calories you're taking in from however you're preparing your chicken and pork

You're good, I didn't take it that way. The 'h' probably was pronounced more broadly than it is today, but there are still regional accents and dialects where it is pronounced. The original comment I replied to was referring to Ron White pronouncing the h, and my mom and a lot of my Appalachian relatives (different side of the family) pronounce the h as well.

The screen has hardware that can measure the natural electrical charge of your body.

It is not measuring the "natural electric charge of your body." Your fingers form a capacitors through the screen with the sensing electrodes. This is why you can also use metal to interact with your screen. The metal does not have to be charged.

So I average about 1000 calories intake daily. 

I hit about 18k steps daily at work. I eat once a day, at an average of ~1k intake daily. 

I literally exist at a deficit. I obsessively tracked it for *years* and I can't lose weight. I understand I'm apparently an outlier, and I'm not discrediting CI<CO, but for me that's not the case.

The people caring for them are burned out and less likely to give them enough stimulation, and good programs are scarce.

Your body being a tumor is actually possible. I sub to medical gore and there was a case presentted of a woman who had a 200lbs tumor removed. It got so big because doctors dismissed it as just being fat. It took getting into sepsis to get noticed.

If you have been tracking it, I suggest you see a doc and bring your logs with you.

I’m a bored eater and the glp didn’t help with those cravings at all. I assume because it doesn’t really have to do with being hungry. What it did do was limit how much I could eat at one time.

I wish I could be prescribed a glp-1 for alcohol use disorder. I am not *quite* overweight enough nor do I have any qualifying conditions to garner a script but, man, the food and alcohol noise is unreal. I asked my psych and, since it’s not yet approved for alcoholism, he told me I’d need to see a primary care physician. So my course of action is to either intentionally gain 20-30lbs, finally inherit my familial propensity for diabetes and heart disease, or suffer through the incessant battle of willpower vs binging every night until I die. 🙃

Seems like the trolls have gone and about. When I mean a 'diet' I don't mean they take the decision to go and reduce their weight. I mean we as as staff don't allow them to eat over their caloric intake.

It's due to being one of the most advanced treatments to date when it comes to weight loss and type 2 diabetes. For years, the magical drug that would get rid of body fat and cure type 2 diabetes has been sought after, and while GLP-1s don't do exactly that, they're a big step in that direction.

An outlier to physics

On the occasions I might still stress eat between meals, it’s not huge amounts anymore AND when I sit for a meal, the portions that sate me are so much smaller. Still serious caloric deficit.

I don't think most people know the actual physics of that kind of statement. Food=/= calories. Exercise=/= calories. Therefore cico saying food in = exercise out is a false equivalence. Your ability to break food down and convert it into calories varies wildly person to person.  That ability can be changed with hormones and vitamin levels. So calorie deficits have very little to do with actual food intake.

It’s also literally true in the physical sense. If you surgically remove fat from any animal, they have lost weight (assuming both the before and after tests are done with same amount of gravity affecting the animal).

I'm on it. It makes you less hungry, fuller faster, and most of all, it allows you to feel content rather than full.

I never really felt full in the way I do now. Even as a kid and even when I have been fit I have never really just stopped eating because my body just.. stops. Before I have stopped eating because I decided that I shouldn't eat anymore, the craving for food didn't go away or anything.

Now it does, I eat and it just ceases. I don't feel bloated or anything. I can tell you this much, if this is how other people experience eating then I understand how they think it is a matter of "willpower". It's how it felt when I started out with medicine for my ADD and I just realised how fucking easy people have it, and understood their frustration with me.

When I first saw video of the boxing day tsunami flooding through Banda Aceh, the relentless rising surge of water and debris was so much more horrifying than the concept I'd had of a tsunami being just a big wave. It just kept coming, rising higher and consuming people who had no escape.

You would either die by drowning, or getting crushed and mangled by all the flotsam that is getting swept along with the tsunami.

I take a GLP-1 and chantix.

Still eat and smoke.

Just not as much because the noise isn’t there.

Edit: I actually started zero BECAUSE it may help me fully quit smoking… tbd

Good answer.  I also work with kids with intellectual disabilities.  Exercise is hard.  Eating snacks is fun. Unhealthy foods taste great.  Yes, there can be medication/medical issues too, but lack of motivation to exercise and unhealthy eating habits is all it really takes.

I have the exact same experience as you. Both with boredom and food noise, and with the connection between them.

The whole point of this sub is to ask a question and have someone explain it. People are going to people, keep up the curiosity. 

I’m 46 and only just got my head around what the thyroid does because my daughter is on the cusp of hyperthyroidism. That is linked to her genetic condition, called Turner Syndrome which is the second most common syndrome after Down syndrome.

Water all day every day. 

Beef or chicken. Maybe pork. Usually a vegetable. Sometimes a potato. Not lots of starch, not tons of pasta or anything. 

Depending on work, I might do fast food once or twice a week, but even then a 1200 calorie meal doesn't undo burning 3000 calories a day.

Wish the cameraman weren't wailng like a 6 year old girl the whole time but holy shit that is straight out a nightmare.

My husband lost 70 pounds with zero exercise because of his stress and boredom eating. I'm to 100, and I swear, I've lost every damn pound in the gym. It's so not fair. Lol.

What about gaining weight on mounjaro? 2kg for example?

I’m glad what ever you did worked for you but that doesn’t mean it’s the solution for everyone else. I also doubt you ”just did it”. Did you make it on the first try? If not, is it possible you learned a thing or to on the previous attempts that made it possible? 

The point I was trying to make is that while there is truth to CICO it’s not the full truth. And I think the fact the drugs like ozempic work is an illustration of that.

I operate at a massive deficit. 

I'm not trying to be a dick, but by definition if you aren't losing weight you aren't operating at any deficit at all. That's what a deficit is, the difference between your input and output. If you have something medically going on that is reducing your output that much, that sucks, don't get me wrong. 

But measuring output is hard. Outside an exercise lab the best way to do it is... measuring your input and monitoring weight changes over a long term.

The recent video from Japan and Indonesia really contrasts the "big wave" imagery I had seen from movies and woodcuts.

You know what it feels like to be hangry? The meds stop that. I stopped having bad cravings on them too… mostly. 

I’d go all day with having an orange and a bite of sausage.

I think the sharks would be as much in danger as the people atp

I wish the food noise ever stops

👏👏👏 Thank you!!! We need more public awareness of hormones and what a huge role they play in obesity.

My favorite comment of the day!

It definitely helps with that too because it helps get rid of the food noise that makes you want to eat.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Anecdotes, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

If you’re a stress eater, you would have to pay attention to “addiction transference”. If food is how you deal with stress, you have to find a healthier alternative that’s not like…..smoking…or something else. May I suggest exercise? But seriously, addiction transference

and… what do you drink? what is the meal?

Some people would eat a whole large stuffed crust pizza either extra cheese and a 2 Litre bottle of Mountain Dew as their ‘single meal’ and be baffled that this ‘single meal’ was problematic.

When I lost a bunch of weight it did seem strange just how little I had to eat. An egg and an apple for breakfast. Salad and grilled chicken for lunch. Salad for dinner. Plus 10k+ steps a day.

Yes. The main mechanism is insulin release,  not appetite.

Don't worry kiddo, asking well intentioned questions to learn is never bad! I have hypothyroid which is the opposite! But it again make you fat lol. I've never heard that description either and my kiddo is just a few years younger than you! So now I have a new way to explain it, too! 

Keep being curious:) and good on you for taking people being unkind very well. Yous a good egg.

That's not true though. Even after you account for other factors like height, weight, gender, and activity level, BMR can still vary by as much as 700 calories per day. 

This article does a good deep dive on the data and why people misinterpret it.

You’re trying to be snarky but as someone who just passed 5 years sober, that’s exactly how to stop alcoholism.

Eating less and drinking cessation are both really difficult but the solution is literally to just do it. There are obviously more and less effective means of achieving those goals but at the end of the day those goals are something you just have to do.

Disregarding skill level -

It's not your mind it's that it's the nature of life that things keep changing. 

With photography we work with light, angles, shadow, colour and time to paint an image it's the same with drawing.  Sometimes those factors hide flaws other times they enhance them and they keep changing. 

Our eyes work the same way painting an image from second to second. 

The "real" image of a person doesn't really exist to humans as how a person looks in general depends on local conditions.  Classic example: brown toned women in ill fitting brown dress looks like a sausage when she's usually stunning. 

When drawing something you pull from what was, your memory. 

When drawing something live you don't use one image you use thousands as you keep getting new images and they're slightly different from the last. 

Your memory won't match the current flux of conditions when you see the person again. 

That's why it never looks quite right. 

Skill level determines how accurately you can pull that moment of time from your memory.

 Interestingly how often your memory is accessed also changes that memory.

It is, but it's a lot more complicated to figure out what the question is for you specifically than it sounds, when you make it that simple. Different people have different metabolisms - some people are literally just going to have fewer calories in because their bodies aren't as good at extracting them, or more calories or because their bodies aren't as efficient at using them. And that's not even getting into the food noise thing others have spoken about.

It's very difficult to turn the unemployed worker in Detroit who knows how to put bolts on cars into a worker who can supervise training protocols for AI neural nets in San Francisco.

But will power can provide almost identical results given enough time.

No matter how you regulate/digest the ultimate formula is energy intake va energy expenditure.

In fact “willpower” for those that have it is far superior since on just meds the first weight you loose is muscle

It's only "injectible willpower" in the same way that drugs help folks who hear voices have "ear plugs." Willpower is such a fraught term; it's so often associated with some kind of moral value. GLP-1s change messed up body functions, one of which may be inability to not eat (esp when not hungry). Obviously disordered eating can come from a myriad of issues, but medically, "willpower" isn't one of them. They change brain chemistry so that thoughts and impulses around food ("food noise") helps those with dysfunction become like folks who do not have that dysfunction. It's not willpower; it's body chemistry.

I guess it could compare to mental health issues that cause people to behave weirdly or inappropriately. Do we tell those folks to just use their willpower to stop having hallucinations or stop being depressed?

While that’s literally true in the quantum mechanical sense, that’s not how animals lose weight. Almost all of our weight loss comes from a combination of water loss through breathing, sweating, and urinating, and (more significantly) respiratory loss by breathing out extra carbon in the form of CO2.

You still have cravings if you’re stress/bored eater. You don’t eat another buffet minutes after you’ve eaten a huge meal despite being bored/stressed. The same applies here.

And then I saw the video of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev putting a bomb next to an 8 year old boy. After that I saw things differently.

What, it taught you that killing is only *sometimes* bad?

If your response to someone killing people is "they have a point, we *should* kill more people" I think you've lost your moral compass. And you *would* be considered a monster in most Western countries. I'm sorry you live in a country where barbarism is normalized. Perhaps you'd have fewer people planting bombs next to 8 year olds if you as a society weren't so strongly in favor of killing people.

But what about the simple ones? 

Those are simple: killing people is wrong. Their victims won't come back to life just because you murder more people. The only "problem" you're solving is sating your own bloodlust. And that is not really a job for the justice system.

It fixes the metabolic issue that allows willpower to actually work

Yes, exactly. The main problem is the endocrine system being out of balance. That's why glp1 works so much better than dieting. Because it rebalances your hormones.

You've proven my point - it'd be an effective deterrent to bad driving. The only reason it would cause a logjam is because we don't already do it. You don't think more driver's education instructors would pop up if there was suddenly a need and desire for them?

The current system isn't a deterrent, except in states with a point system. It's just a penalty on the less well-off. Because as you said - you'd just pay a $200 ticket and not everyone can just easily pay a ticket. So there's no incentive to correct your behavior.

Actually it's the opposite. It makes your body able to absorb calories more efficiently. Glp1 causes insulin to release. The insulin is what tells your cells to allow glucose from food in to be metabolized. Without glp1, you don't properly absorb the food into your cells. That's why it gets diverted to fat, because it can't be used right. It's also why most obese people also experience other symptoms like fatigue. Because their body isn't able to use the calories it takes in.

You take the shot, and an hour later you don't care about food.

People without formal training are bad at sketching because they don't simplify what they're drawing into the actual shapes they're seeing, instead they try to draw from memory and create a jumbled mess.

The issue isn't that people look different in real life than they do in photographs, it's that your brain processes information symbolically. The problem is that you're not drawing what you're actually seeing, while a photograph takes exact images.

For me it’s the difference between being hungry and not being able to concentrate on anything until I’ve eaten, and being able to just go huh, yeah I’m hungry I should get some food in a bit.

A photo is a flat image of a single position, which is different from seeing a person in 3D motion. You're not getting as much information looking at a flat, still image than you do seeing a person in physical space with depth and motion. The light and shadows on the face in the photo can affect how the features appear as well.

Mine was quieting the food noise. Every waking moment spent thinking about food - food you ate - food you were going to eat - food in general. Once the noise went away so did the desire to eat to excess. I lost 160lbs in 14 months. Would never go back to not using it.

We, as a species, used to be tall. Then we switched to agriculture and our population exploded and we began to starve, and so we got smaller. 
Since then we have gradually been returning to our original hieght. It really accelerated with the advent of modern medicine too, so not just food. Living in large groups allowed disease to circulate throughout the population which added to our earlier shrinkage.

Glp1 inherently increases metabolic rate by stimulating insulin release

It helps with the adhesion of the tile to the floor. In art class did you ever do clay work and the teacher told you to score things you want to stick together after firing? It's the same kind of principle.

Ozempic is part of a class of drugs known as GLP-1. Our bodies actually make this chemical naturally. But one of many many enzymes in our bodies breakdown (destroy) the natural stuff within a couple minutes. *

1.) It promotes insulin (a hormone) secretion from the pancreas, which will lower blood sugar levels. (Not helpful for Type 1 diabetes as those folks effectively have no insulin production available)

2.) It lowers how much stored carbohydrates (sugars) will be dumped from storage in the liver. Also great for lowering overall blood sugar. 

3.) It promotes us feeling "full" much quicker. This is done by slowing the gut muscles from moving stuff through our intestines as quickly. Sometimes unfortunately, this can lead to constipation. (Not pooping) Or if you eat a ton at once, vomiting. Cuz it's just not moving and the inn is full up so to speak. 

All three of these combine to make not only a great way to control specifically type 2 diabetes, but also to promote weight loss over enough time. These drugs have been around for nearly 20 years, but only (relatively) recently have they been touted as weight loss drugs. They were historically only for Type 2 diabetes until 2021 when the FDA approved Wegovy (the exact same active ingredient as Ozempic) for weight loss. It's become widely available through compounding pharmacies (other GLP-1's as well) as a cheaper alternative for folks who can't afford the copays for Wegovy or just want the weight loss coupled with a several year shortage of availability of the medication. There's even an oral (taken by mouth) form named Rybelsus. Compounding pharmacies also make these. 

*= The enzyme DPP-4 breaks down the natural GLP-1 created in our bodies quickly. We have medications to slow down the ability of it to do so. Unfortunately, as far as I'm aware, there's no real benefit of being on both. As whether injectable or taken by mouth, the dosages absorbed by the body of available GLP-1's far outpace the enzyme's ability to break it down. 

Perhaps more than ELI5, but thought I'd weigh in.

Usually the people I see fighting against CICO aren’t the ones saying that fat people are just lazy.

My stress and boredom eating disappeared. Just, poof, vanished. It’s been life changing.

It works the same way natural glp1 does in the body. It tells your body to release insulin so the sugar from what you ate can actually go into cells and be used for energy. Without that insulin release, the sugar can't be used for energy and gets stored as fat. Regardless of how much you eat. That's why many obese people can't lose weight even if they diet. Because their insulin isn't working right. Glp1 corrects that.

I don't have an answer but I have a follow up:

Why is it suddenly do popular? Anecdotally, I've seen bigger folks become skeletons in a year...to the point where I worry (I work in a cafeteria and serve a large office crowd). I don't know enough to say anything bad or good about it as a weight loss thing, but the transformations I've seen in such short time, that can't be long term and even the efficacy of it during use shows massive results. 

So why is it so popular if it's kinda new and so extreme at it's "task"? It can't be good for your liver or like processing organs....and again when you stop taking it?

Ope, you're right, Apple's patent originally:

Do... do you not pinch zoom ever?

There's old timey screens that can't keep track of more than one thing touching them, but yours knows what's up.

I am that and I am down 46lbs on glp-1

Atoms and molecules are constantly moving in random directions, speeding up and slowing down as they brush past other atoms.  When an atom slows down, it sends away its excess energy and momentum by creating and shooting out a particle called a *photon*.  Another atom can absorb a photon and speed up.

This means any lump of matter will "glow" -- it will send out random photons all the time.  Physicists call this glow blackbody radiation.

The exact energy levels of photons that shoot out depends on the material's color, surface, etc.  But generally, higher temperatures give you more photons, and each individual photon has a higher energy level.  ("Blackbody" refers to a theoretical perfectly black surface with no imperfections.)

Are our eyes just heat radiation sensors that have evolved to perceive the rays of heat as "light"

Light is photons that our eyes are able to see.  The Sun is very hot and constantly sends out a huge number of photons in all directions.  Our eyes are sensors that react to photons within the most common range of energy levels.  (Aliens that evolved on planets around hotter or colder stars might have eyes that react to higher or lower energy levels.)

We can build devices to detect photons with higher or lower energy levels.  These devices can do some pretty neat tricks, for example night vision goggles can detect the low-energy photons in the "glow" of everyday stuff that's not as hot as the Sun, and put them on a screen.  Wireless communication devices (cell phones, radios, Wifi, Bluetooth) send signals with very low energy photons that can pass through narrow obstacles (e.g. most walls, ceilings and floors).

Is all light sourced from heat?

No.  Photons can be created by other processes such as chemical reactions, nuclear reactions, or fast charged particles slowing down as they pass by stationary matter (Bremsstrahlung ).

The glowing part of an old-fashioned incandescent bulb is a hot part glowing because of blackbody radiation.  It's inefficient because many photons are energy levels our eyes can't see, and heat constantly escapes through the base.

Modern LED bulbs force electrons to through an obstacle that takes a very specific amount of energy.  It's more efficient because most of the energy goes into making photons our eyes can see.  (An LED creates a little heat but not nearly as much as an incandescent.)

Sure that’s the weight problem, but I’m talking about food addiction and binging, which is wholly separate from weight. You can be a very standard weight but utterly depressed from being victim to your addiction

I'd like to try somnia.

ChatGPT? Come on, that's so 2023. Keep up, at least insult me with current technology.

So what if you're a stress/boredom eater like me?

CI < CO is the only way to lose weight, but... they aren't direct measurements. It's more like calories consumed x percent absorbed due to various factors < calories expended by base metabolic rate + exercise. If you ignore any of that and just say "have less calories 5head" you simplify it to the point where people get confused about why they're not losing weight and think you must be wrong. What you're saying also isn't wrong, but doesn't take into account the practical side of managing satiety levels making it unhelpful. If you want to actually help people think about losing weight, in my opinion you ought to commit to that and put in the effort to give the full picture instead of just saying CI < CO which functions more as a barb of a statement to some people rather than advice

In fact, semaglutide and tirzepatide almost certainly decrease Total Daily Energy Expenditure. But the appetite suppression is by far the most important effect. 

People don’t like to admit they eat too much, but that’s always been the problem. Now we just have a drug that makes it significantly easier to fix.

That's where the log driver learns to step lightly.

No, but I've read every one and it's part of my webcomic rotation, along with Megatokyo (nothing since December '25), Oglaf (still going strong),  Dr McNinja (I still mourn its passing), Questionable Content (I love how it's evolved), Sinfest (ditto) and SMBC. Was active on the fora (FAID represent), and still have a hankering for the "old days".

Side question: anything else in the same vein I should read?

It's because it's an insanely unhelpful point to hammer on.

It's like butting into a group of rocket engineers discussing orbital mechanics and yelling "MAKE THING GO UP FAST", then putting on a smug "my work here is done" face. Uselessly rephrasing the objective doesn't achieve anything and just makes you look like a patronizing imbecile in 99% of situations.

90% sure Ozempic doesn’t do anything to improve metabolism, Tirz and particularly Retra are different animals however.

what exactly are you referring to? a cursory search reveals that there's a lot of different research and patents related to multi-touch technology with some stuff dating back to the 80s at Bell Labs. Samsung doesn't come up in this history.

Apple notably acquired Fingerworks for multi-touch tech and patents in the 00s, no mention of samsung licensing here.

My wife didn’t believe me how terrible true heart burn is until she got pregnant and realized I wasn’t being a baby about it. Baking Soda sprinkled in water is a damn godsend if it’s really bad. Almost instant relief…

The closest I've actually witnessed to this is an episode of Car Talk where the caller complained about the difficulty of shifting out of park when parking on a hill. Their advice was to set the parking brake before shifting to park, then to shift to gear before releasing when leaving. 

While I don't remember the specifics, I seem to recall the caller providing some resistance to the idea of setting the brake. 

I'll admit the likelihood of issues is low, but I prefer the "belt and suspenders" approach in this instance. I've also had a history of financial challenges and I prefer to set up situations where if something is going to break, I want it to be the least costly option.

It’s literally just water that keeps fucking going. 

water isnt the problem its really all other crap in the water that will kill you

The more fiber you eat, the longer the food sticks around and can form a phytobezoar.  I think I have one now but my pa literally scoffed at me when I asked her about ways to break up a mass of oats and apple chips (that are now fermenting in my stomach)....causing horrible pain, extreme hard cider and stout burps that are carbonated and burn my nose, and one day it was so bad it felt like I drank Bacardi 151 for a minute straight, my stomach was on fire, I felt flushed...I swear I had a slight buzz or something going on.  

I already had horrible gastroparesis before ozempic, but I lost 110 lbs.  It has significantly helped me.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Straightforward or factual queries are not allowed on ELI5. ELI5 is meant for simplifying complex concepts (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

No, it’s not tidal.  That’s a misnomer.

And body fat is part of the hormone factory. So anything that effects fat levels effects hormones

Totally agree. So many problems could be solved if we just applied your line of thinking.

Alcoholism - Just reduce alcohol in to 0 and the laws of physics determine it’s impossible for you to remain an alcoholic.

Did we just have a civil interaction on Reddit? What is the world coming to?

"Aura Farming" is when someone just tries to exist/stand around doing nothing of purpose, except for "being cool" having "aura" that's basically it.

Outwordly “pecocking” to get clout. They’re farming for that aura, or attention

“Aura farming” usually refers to the act of knowingly looking really cool on purpose to have “aura” / to seem cool or intimidating or badass.

Software. Touch screens are capacitive. Under the screen is a grid that picks up the electrical capacitance of your finger. That's why a wet screen doesn't pick up touches correctly. The electrical capacitance of your finger gets spread across the entire wet surface. 

When you hold down a finger on insta is tells the app to pause the video. When you pull down from the top of the screen with another finger, your phone's operating system recognizes the second touch on another part of the grid and brings up your notification bar.

Same way it can detect two finger motions like pinch to zoom or rotate.

The screen has hardware that can measure the natural electrical charge of your body. When you touch the screen it knows where you are touching it. If you touch it with 2 fingers or 5 fingers it knows each spot that is being touched.

Software on the phone is responsible for taking that touch detection and figuring out what motions you are doing or what you are trying to do.

It detects that you are doing a long press and does the action for that. It also detects another motion elsewhere on the screen and knows what to do for that motion. Because you are already doing a long press it can figure out that you aren't trying to do a pinch and that you want to pull down the notification bar.

It doesn't work like that. Those people don't gain because they naturally burn more calories without purposely trying.

I work with nurses from all over, the education is pretty similar. Some from African or Caribbean countries need to brush up of specialty things like mechanical ventilation and wound vacs, but they almost always beat me hands down when it comes to straight cathing color getting an IV placed on a dehydrated 90 year old….

You’re describing my late wife when we first got together. Then she went on antidepressants and suddenly couldn’t get enough sugary/starchy food and put on 100 pounds.

Down 46 here and still get cravings but they go away after one bite of the food I’m craving instead of the entire pack of the food I’m craving haha

I spent years tracking my intake, even erring on the side of caution and tracking a higher intake than I was probably taking. 

I'm not saying it shouldn't work, just that I feel like I'm an outlier.

It's less like one giant button and more like thousands of tiny buttons arranged in a grid. The phone knows exactly which spots are being touched, so keeping one finger still while another moves is no different than tracking two pieces on a chessboard.

Why wouldn’t it? It detects what it touching over the entire screen at all times. 

It sup to the software to determine what is a tap, double tap, swipe, drag, pinch, etc. all location data and temporal data. The engine measures all of these things and then makes a determination of what commands to send to what programs or OS.

It definitely significantly cut my smoking. Some days I wouldn't even bother with my morning cigarette or my pre-bed cigarette, which are usually the two non-negotiable ones.

And the time I hit an adipose capillary with the injection and spent the rest of the day barfing any time I swallowed something, I didn't smoke a cigarette for three days.

What you're describing, essentially, is the patent that made the smart phone possible. It's samsung's patent that they licensed to all the other companies - they figured out how to do this.

Yep. I wasn’t even very overweight, but the food noise was insane. I was just legitimately so hungry. Now I eat like normal people do and barely think of food outside meal times. The change is wild.

The calories are coming from somewhere. I recommend using a tracking app

The fact that it's not easy doesn't make it less true. Calories in, calories out is established fact. What some people refuse to acknowledge is that everyone's body is different and calorie burn isn't always the same result for the same effort.  

It's also established fact that it's easier for men to lose weight than for women,  and most people do accept that,  but still refuse to extrapolate out and realize it's easier for some people than others within the same gender.

Pretty sure it’s only retatrutide that increases how much you burn by acting on glucagon.

The others don’t increase basal metabolic rate.

Oh I’m English i think it’s probably different

I spent like 3 years tracking intake vs output. 

I operate at a *massive* deficit. 

I think it's super cancer, and my entire torso is just a gigantic tumor.

Yeah the gas pedal is a good description

I can give first hand perspective as I was on ozempic and now.Mounjaro- it provides both an appetite suppression (which is the biggest factor to me personally) and delayed gastric emptying which leads to feeling full much longer. In addition to this it drastically improves my blood sugar control (I'm diabetic). It also apparently reduces inflammation which has benefits beyond just the appetite stuff. I've heard claims that it also helps with addiction beyond food addiction. This is all the work of the GLP-1 peptide and on mounjaro and other tirzepatide the GIP. 

For me what it did was make me not really interested in food. I still get hungry but at what feels like normal intervals. I used to think about food nonstop all day. I also never got full. I could eat a full large fast food meal and still be hungry. Due to being on these,.I haven't even had fast food since December. Most nights I could easily skip dinner but force myself to eat in order to not cause issues.

I was overweight as a teen, and when I slimmed down a ton my senior year of college I had so many people ask what my "secret" was. Diet and a lot of exercise. That was it. My aunt was convinced I had either met someone I was desperate to impress or got diagnosed with a serious illness cause she simply did not believe I had the desire and discipline to put in the work.

I pretty exclusively drink water. I might have a sprite or a 7up twice a month tops. 

I drink black coffee. I don't really eat sweets. None of it. I'm the least "sweet attracted" fat fuck you'll ever meet.

The advantage of you asking this question is that others learn things from the real answers. The description of the thyroid as a gas pedal was helpful to me. It makes it so much easier to explain it to others. There were other useful responses too that I liked. Don’t let the trolls get you down. Keeping asking questions.

My uncle survived the Thailand 2004 tsunami and his experience was the impact, crushing people and in one instance impaling a woman on a broken ballister

Same here. The cravings for snacks, fast food, sweet treats…they’re pretty much gone. I’ll still get some from time to time, but it’s nothing like before. 
I no longer think “oh there’s a x food place on the way to y, better stop for some fries/chips/soda/etc”. 

Down 45lbs so far.

I do not know the answer to that but my impression is that it slows down the release from the stomach to the intestines, not necessarily what happens *in* the intestines.

Interesting question! I started nursing school when I was 30 and the best decision I made was to start working as a CNA before starting school. I learned way more on the job as a CNA than I ever did in the classroom. Also, nursing school is not nearly as hard as people think. Most of my textbooks were written on a fifth or sixth grade level.

Clinicals I also did not find that difficult. A lot of it is repetitive and attention to detail, but apart from chemistry class and anatomy class none of my classes were that challenging.

As far as dealing with the stress of being a nurse? It just really depends what field you get into. If you work in oncology you are probably going to be very stressed up. If you work in the ICU, you are probably going to be very stressed out. If you work with stable pediatrics like I do, but you know how to talk and get along with family members and school teachers? It’s actually not that stressful.

I’m actually winding up my career as a pediatric nurse after that I hope to focus on hospice and palliative. I’ve worked some hospice and palliative care cases before both with adults and with children, and I find the work very rewarding with pretty low stress levels. If you can come to terms and make your face, make your peace with the reality of death palliative care might just really be for you.

Good luck and if you have any other questions, don’t hesitate to ask.

So, like, salt is like a magnet that attaches to water molecules. 

The salt magnets rip away the crystalline structure of ice, melting it. 

Boiling takes longer because you have to get extra energy roiling through the salt water to shake off the salt magnets.

I'm this case, no, the :orca: was literal because my phone isn't updated yet for Unicode 17.

Same. Sometimes I’m sad that I don’t want to eat any more of a particularly delicious meal though lol

The poop thing isn't normal. I go every morning like normal. You need fiber. I don't get the burping thing either.

Yep. How you get to CICO successfully varies a lot from person to person, it's why there's so many different diets. But whether you're not eating carbs, calorie counting, cutting out sugar, doing keto, not eating gluten, etc, you lose weight when you eat less calories than you burn.

Yup Gila monster salvia hormone

Ok doctor here. Idk where everyone is getting their information here but appetite suppression is NOT the main factor. It’s a useful side effect of it specifically for weight loss but it’s not even close to the main thing. 

Theres a lizard called a Gila Monster, it catches its food by biting it once then just slowly following it. The venom makes the body need more energy but not be able to produce it (increases insulin production in levels and slows both the stomachs ability to move food and the livers ability to make glucose). This is what inspired GLP1 drugs. Similar safer strain to the venom molecules that doesn’t overdo it. Basically they force your body to go to other sources of energy because food won’t do it, and therefore it jumps to fat stores (adipose tissue) which are specifically there for energy storage.

TLDR
To summarise, appetite suppression is a small side benefit. Ultimately it is increasing your energy burning and slowing your bodies ability to easily replace said energy so it needs to go to burning fat for its next best option. More insulin, less glucose, less stomach emptying. 
Truly have no idea where people are pulling this information from but a simple google search will contradict almost every single answer I’m seeing here

Edit: typo

People will fight tooth and nail and spurt all sorts of complicated nonsense to maintain dissonance with CICO lol

I used to be one of those people before glp-1 and calorie counting. 21kg later (and still eating small amounts of the food I used to binge on) I am a full believer that it is literally just CICO that matters

All good, I typed that up quickly on my phone so I'm sure my language could have been more clear.

The first shingles vax left both my husband and I with extrembly sore arms for weeks, couldn’t lay down on that side, and our arms ached for ages, months even. The pain lessened each day. 

The second one was nowhere as bad. Still worse that any other vax but bearable.

That was six months ago and we still get days randomly where we can feel the injection site aching.

However, we lived with two different relatives on two occasions,that had shingles and the agony they both went through made the vax pain just something to whine about by comparison.

Right, my point being that taking more energy to boil *is* an increase though isnt it

it really stops boredom hunger. When you are home and have nothing to do and full fridge. It also helps late night eating.

Those people also seem to underestimate how much genetics and hormones can contribute to the efficiency of your body and the "calories out" part. The exact same diet with the exact same activity can look completely different on two different bodies, even of the same height and weight.

Mine is the SEVERE heartburn if I eat more than a handful

This is such a good example of why it's incredibly difficult for some people to lose weight and it has nothing to do with willpower.  That "stop eating or you'll be sorry" feeling? That's totally normal to me.  It came built into my body.  

I'm very small (5 feet 110lb) and I eat small portions because I will very literally get sick if I overeat.  I start feeling nauseated and bloated halfway through a meal. If I eat more anyway because it really tastes amazing,  I'll spend the rest of the evening miserable and popping antacids trying not to puke.

I'm 45, and it's always been like that. It's a lot of the reason I never got fat during 30 years of high dose prednisone. Nothing to do with willpower,  my diet is fucking atrocious and I know it.  High sugar, high carb, high processed junk. I just don't eat enough food to gain much weight. 

It's utterly and completely not fair.  My mom has struggled with her weight her entire life.  I see what she eats and it's miserable,  she doesn't allow herself to have anything worth eating.  She has more willpower in her little finger than I do in my entire body, and she's still always going to be heavier (relative to height) than me.  Just because I was randomly born with the "stop eating or ELSE" thing and she wasn't. 

I think it's a great thing that medical science has finally figured out how to correct the cosmic imbalance.

Sustainability and depletion of willpower doesn't come into the story because it doesn't matter. In the end, CI<CO will always result in weight loss.

Unrelated question. I want to get into nursing (specifically palliative care!) but the only issue is I am DUMB as fuck. I have a few mental health issues (including burn out and executive dysfunction) and so revising and consistent school is really hard for me. Do you have any tips for managing how stressful your work is and/or how to get into nursing?

For me I sometimes just get bored in the middle of a meal, like I just don't care about eating anymore and push my plate away. I don't think I ever didn't complete a meal before Zepbound and now I routinely dump a plate with a 1/3 of meal still on it.

Idk what your diet consists of, but I still very much enjoy food, I don't have gnarly burps, and my poop is just fine.

Cool graphic.  I'm going to file this one to throw at every drop kick who says "just eat less".

This sounds very ChatGPT

I did keto by accident.  I wanted to cut out sugar as I just ate too many sweets.. My family history was diabetic on both sides but I never had any indication of Diabetes, just my father nagging me about all the sweets I ate so I cut them out which led me to cut carbs. I lost all the cravings for Sugar and carbs after 3 weeks. I ended up losing about 40lbs which was more than I needed to. I finally figured out that I was calorie deficient as I had gone from 3,000 to 4,000 a day to about 1,500. The recommended amount for my age and height is 2300. So calorie reduction is the key.

OK, finally a question I can answer! Source, I’m a pediatric nurse and I work with disabled children.

Children with intellectual disabilities sometimes take medication to regulate their mood, but many do not. Sometimes children with intellectual disabilities have a slower metabolism, but some do not.

However, in the school system, and also at home, you see some interesting trends with intellectually disabled children.

Food is often used as a way to motivate them to do things that their caregivers or teachers want them to do, like wash their dishes, do their math, homework, participate in PE class, stay calm during lunch, and many other things. It seems like a small thing to give a child five chips as a reward for doing their work or refraining from punching a classmate, but when that’s happening 10-30 times a day from different teachers, assistants, parents, etc? it adds up.

Children with intellectual disabilities (and many without intellectual disabilities) often do not want to participate in PE class and they also do not want to participate in vigorous play on the playground. It’s very difficult to motivate an intellectually disabled child to do something like participate in PE or engage in vigorous play if they know that they can get out of it by falling to the ground and having a temper tantrum.

Children with intellectual disabilities also are notorious for being picky eaters. Often the picky eating phase (and it can be a long phase) comes after early feeding disorders in infancy and toddlerhood that were stress and sometimes life-threatening and required feeding tubes. So for many parents, they are not willing to have a battle over whether their child is eating healthy food or not. They are just happy their child is eating at all.

Children with intellectual disabilities also are notorious for living in the moment, they don’t think long-term, they don’t think how do I want my health to be in 10 years…or even tomorrow. They want that hotdog now they want that ice cream now, and that is really the only thing on their mind.

Parents and teachers of these children are often exhausted and at the end of their rope on a regular basis. Fighting with their child about food several times a day is not the hill that most of them are willing to die on.

However, I will say some parents are successful in using summer as a time to take a child and do things that their child really enjoys like swimming. At the end of three months spent during the summer swimming or doing whatever activities they like and doing it a lot, they often come back quite a bit slimmer, and happier. Then the school term starts and the food as positive reinforcement starts again. 

The kids who do the best have parents who understand that keeping their child’s weight under control has a huge effect on their lifespan and their health, but I’m certainly not going to go and judge any parents because it is a hard hard hard thankless job.

Asking other humans is the best option in my opinion. It's easier in real life, on reddit people will sometimes think a person asking questions is just messing around (because internet).

But I just want to say absolutely do not stop being curious and do not stop asking questions! This is how you become smart because you hear things from different people! There are lots of people in the world who will be happy to answer a question

I want to add that the "calories out" is also very flexible. Your body is designed to be efficient and if you eat less your body responds to try to burn less. Even perfectly healthy people have this happen, but it is even more drastic for people with certain disorders.

Glp medications also affect how many calories you burn. It keeps your body burning calories even if you are eating a deficit.

Even worse, it isn’t always just stuffing your face to death every day. It could be an extra snack here or there. Getting a sweet treat twice a week. Next thing you know you gained 45-50 in a year without a ton of binge eating

Will power man.... it isnt like a muscle.  Half of it is strategy, not strength.

Probably 90 percent of it or more.  Avoid temptations, not saying no to them.

It;s just appetite suppression. It has other positive impacts on your health, but the weightloss is purely appetite suppression. There have been a number days where I simply forgot to eat dinner because I wasn't hungry.

I kinda thought we were about to learn about the time mankind jumped from the top of a cage

Heavier people will have less enzymes and hence they burn food much more slowly

Entirely wrong. Basal metabolic rate goes up with weight. 

Exercising makes enzymes jump through the roof to push the body back to its original weight

No it doesn't. There's no disproportionate spike in enzymes when you exercise. 

A healthy person will lose more weight doing the same physical activity.

Also wrong. Heavier people expend more energy doing the same activity as lighter people.

It is well known that obese people will have to maintain a significant lifestyle change permanently.

Yes, *in order to maintain a caloric balance.* This is all still CICO. There's no way around CICO. It is not possible to get lighter on a surplus or heavier on a deficit. That doesn't mean it's simple or easy to do so, but the mechanism is undeniable.

The stomach emptying part gets overlooked. That's also why nausea is so common early on, food is sitting there longer than people are used to.

Also doesn’t help that you can’t avoid it. Any other addiction you can cut cold turkey. Alcohol, drugs, gambling — there is no need for them and you can simply commit to 0. But food addiction is brutal because every single day, multiple times a day, you have to partake in your trigger and hope with all your heart that it doesn’t kick off a spree.

Do you drink soda/energy drinks/anything besides water? What is the one meal a day and what is the serving size?

The calories are coming from somewhere. Try googling the calories you intake for a week and writing it down. Also google your height and weight and how many calories you burn per day just existing. If you burn 1300 but take in 2000-2300, you’re maintaining your weight and aren’t in a calorie deficit

I was overweight by technical standards but by American standards I'm considered "normal to thin" ie BMI mid-high 20s. I golf/surf/paddleboard/bike/fish etc so I probably burn more calories than average. Also I am in my 40s: my point is your mileage may vary.

Needle gauge, shot location, immune response, if its subcutaneous or intramuscular

makes you have super gross greasy poops.

Stop it you're making me hungry.

You literally can.  Please read the research on the insulin and the bodies reaction to calorie reduction as primary (aka CRAP) as the technique:

Because the hydrogen bonds are weaker than the bonds between the water molecules and the sodium ions. 

It boils hotter because it takes more energy to separate these bonds. 

It freezes colder because the bonds between water and sodium disrupt the more ridged structure formed between frozen water molecules. Basically the salt makes it so water molecules don't fit together as well because they're orientated in all directions around the charged sodium ions. 

One direction is cause by thermodynamics. The other direction is caused by *sterics* - Atoms and molecules are literally just pointed in the wrong direction.

Yes, and also your gut biome tends to not respond well to **any** sudden changes in diet, even if that means suddenly eating less. Models and competitive body builders often have the exact same issues when cutting.

I had to do a SEVEN DAY prep for my colonoscopy so I was taking miralax twice a day and everything I ate shot right through me. By the time I was on the "clear fluids only" part of the prep, I was so hungry I didn't even care. I was just bitin' off heads and lying in bed being miserable.

Anyway I can attest that laxative abuse does, in fact, make you lose weight. I lost like ten pounds in seven days.

(Miralax for the five days leading up to the two-day clear liquids prep. A bottle of ducolax on my last night of solid food. Then biscodyl tables twice the next day, plus drinking the gallon of GoLytely. I feel like four different laxatives is probably too many.)

Which has resulted in the de facto currency basically being dollars, since no one wants to do business with Lebanese lira

I'm not a lawyer, but financial fraud maybe? wire fraud applies to damn near everything, so maybe that?

Needed more fibre, especially in early months while your body is getting used to it 

My doc was heavy on the ‘eat a lot of fibre and protein’ thing

There are people with Down syndrome who aren't American, you know

My partner is diabetic, she’s prescribed tirzepatide to manage her blood sugar and it has worked fantastically.

The extra gas is coming from food sticking around in your system longer, and constantly fermenting? Is this why fibre is important, to help evacuate your system?

Thank you for being nice about it. Another commenter wasn’t as respectful as you 😬

My ex was on them and said if she ate more than a little, she'd feel like she was going to have terrible diarrhea and sometimes she would.  She would stop eating while she was still hungry because she didn't want to trigger the shits.

Sounds like his death was on the prosecutor, judge, and state. My advocacy for the death penalty hinges on knowing for sure based on multiple pieces of extensive evidence that the person did the heinous thing.

I think I get what you mean, but for me, "just having the willpower to eat less" is a misnomer. I was literally always hungry. Just had a snack? Still hungry. Just had a meal? Still hungry. Literally ate so much that I felt ill? I. Was. Still. Hungry. It was awful.

Now? I eat, and at a reasonable point, I am no longer hungry. There are long stretches where I am not hungry, and this is the first time in my life that I have felt this way. The nonstop hunger gnawing in my belly has been replaced with hunger when I need food.

Friends, family, and my doctors have noted my willpower on other fronts. My ability to press on through difficult circumstances is a key part of how people view me. None of that changed the fact that I always felt like I needed food. Now I only feel that when I have not eaten in hours, and it goes away after a reasonable amount of food.

They’re researching the link between glp-1’s and addiction right now and there definitely is a link. I wouldn’t be surprised if it was officially prescribed as something to help with addiction within a year or two

It’s because CICO only explains one half of the story.

Yes, to lose weight you need to be in a deficit.

The hard part is how to actually achieve that in a sustainable way in real life. How you get your calories can both greatly affect hunger levels and also be more or less sustainable for other reasons.

Ive seen anecdotes of tobacco cravings being reduced and even a reduction in ocd compulsions. There's so much about this drug we dont know yet, im really looking forward to seeing what other positive things it can do for people. 

Im one of the ones with reduced food noise though. If I was awake, I was thinking about eating, even if I had just binge ate an entire bag of chips and felt disgusting, i was still thinking about my next meal. That's all gone for me now, its a total life change.

There's nothing wrong with asking the questions. A question that amounts to a definition can be a red flag for trolling, but it doesn't mean people should reply unkindly without more reason.

Have you established your TDEE eith a calculator online?

Have you measured your food and calculated your caloric intake?

I **guarantee** you are eating more than you realize and are not as active as you think, calorie wise.

If it's slowing down your digestion, my guess would be that this would be a no go for people suffering from small intestine bacterial overgrowth?

Unrelated but I think ots so crazy how different lives we lives. OP says strawberry are very hard to find where he lives and Where I live they growing with little to no help. In fact, My mother planted some in a pot in her backyard and they've spread into the grass by themselves and grown with no help.

They're very successful at reducing or eliminating alcohol use.

Please don’t be rude.

I can't say it's glp1s or other but my addiction voice (alcohol) is so quiet. I started glp1s and then a few weeks later got a nasty virus that hung around for a couple of months too. During which time I was not on the injection.Was it the low dose of meds that had an effect? Being sick? Other? Beats me. But I'm very grateful and look forward to more research.

As someone who just had a niece born with a different more fatal Trisomy syndrome, this is some much needed humor.

So on a very basic level, these medications do more than suppress appetite. There are single GLP agonists such as semaglutide and dual GIP/GLP1 agonist like tirzepatide. They are supposed to promote a whole host of effects such as increased insulin sensitivity, enhancing insulin secretion, decreasing hepatic glucose production and lipolysis. They’ve also been shown to have beneficial effects for people with chronic kidney disease, atherosclerosis and metabolic liver diseases. The dual agents are supposed to be stronger than the single agents and there is a new drug on the horizon which will be a triple-agent GIP/GLP/GCG (glucagon). Below is a link to a nice picture of some of their effects.

Not so much the impact of the wave, but impact with what the water pushes you into. But if you survive that, it'll pull you out to sea to drown.

You can't poo, you always feel bloated, you don't want to eat, surprise, surprise.

Does being 15 mean you can't use a search engine?

Second part is a little off. Most people think calories in =calories out. This is not true. In our bodies, we have these things called enzymes which are biological catalysts. Every single chemical reaction in the world will need a push to get started. This can either be through entropy or a little input energy. When we convert food into energy, that is also a chemical reaction. However, this chemical reaction is actually really slow by itself. That is why we need biological catalysts aka enzymes, to speed up the chemical reactions. These reactions will also need a little energy input to get started although, these reactions will produce more energy than it takes at input. However, obesity really is an illness. 
Heavier people will have less enzymes and hence they burn food much more slowly than a healthy person. As soon as a person starts exercising though, these enzymes jump through the roof. Basically, they want to push the body back to its original weight. Hence, it’s not calories in equals calories out. It’s very complex. A heavier person will probably burn less energy than a healthy person on a per mass basis. As soon as they start exercising, these chemical reactions will utilize enzymes a lot more than a healthier person, which ultimately means they will lose less weight. A healthy individual will actually lose more weight while doing the same physical activity, like riding a stationary bicycle. And then couple that with increased hunger, and the person tends to slingshot back to their original weight and maybe a little more. It is well known that obese people will have to maintain a significant lifestyle change permanently. While healthier individuals can simply eat less, and not do a lot of exercise, a formerly obese person will need to do more exercise.

By definition, food calories are what the body will take. Coal for exemple as a lot of calories, we use it in power plants even, but none of those are taken by the body so we say it’s 0 food calories

People who eat a lot and don’t gain weight have just a higher metabolism ( i.e. calories out are higher even at rest)

I can tell you, that when the THC from my edibles kicks in, it completely negates the ozempic... I am able to eat, have hunger, etc...

Taking edibles again slowed down my weight loss.

Sorry I will google in the future

It's great for managing your blood sugar - GLP-1's are great for people w/ type 2 diabetes. 

As far as losing weight - you will definitely eat less and are hungry less frequently.  
  
Your stomach will shrink a bit in the process which helps reduce the portion of food you consume. You have to exercise in addition to changing your eating habits to really lose weight.

There is a downside of having a reduce appetite and that is not knowing what you want to eat, everything doesn't sound appealing.

When my appetite is gone, eating yogurt has been a good snack for me.  
  
As you get more comfortable w/ the drug you'll figure out what you're able to eat through the week. By the end of the week I have a huge appetite and treat myself to something like a burger.  
  
Eating heavy food on GLP-1's will wreck havoc on your body. Nausea and vomiting (food will be sitting in your stomach undigested from the slow down of your GI tract.)

You can still eat well, it'll just take time to figure out what your body can handle on the medication.

It is used to treat diabetes. If you have metabolic issues it helps your body process food better. 

My partner is on it for diabetes & no longer has to use insulin. He has also lost weight, but it was prescribed strictly for diabetes.

I read a thing about people who can “eat anything,” and having been that way well into my forties it really rang true. I may have a few of the details fuzzy, but the deal is that they eat fewer meals. While you might go out to dinner and have a huge meal, you end up not eating until the next dinner because of how your body processes food. I believe it is related to how GLP-1 works.

Of course for me it meant I didn’t develop good eating habits so as I continued eating that way, my body reacted differently than it had and I gained weight.

It definitely kills the food noise 100% for me. For example, I'd go and make a cup of tea and when I'm in the kitchen it'd be screaming out "eat something" so I'd eat bread and bitter or raid the kids packed lunch supplies. If there were cakes on offer, I'd have one, shopping I'll get a big chocolate bar to tide me over. I had to have huge meals to have any sense of satisfaction  

That is completely gone now. And I am managing to change my habits (had to come mounjaro for a couple of weeks before surgey and kept the food noise at bay) the slower digestion means I'm still feeling like I need food at mealtimes but I am certainly eating less and feeling fuller.

The reduction in eating caused me to lose quite a bit of weight, which in turn made exercise easier and more pleasurable. I've now trained my body to feel that having less weight not feel like I'm wading through treacle when I walk, not have to worru about weight limits is much, much more satisfying than a chocolate bar or snack.

Because it's amazingly easy to google.

Looks like meat's back on the menu, boys!

So...yes. 

But like...I eat once a day. I operate at a *massive* deficit daily, and I just can't lose weight. I have an active job. I go to the gym. And it just seems like I'm getting more fat.

Ally and those Olestra Chips in the late 90s that made you shit yourself because your body couldn't process the oil used.

It's because of the "just asking questions" crowd. 

When people want to spread prejudice or troll, one way they do it is by asking questions that are not in good faith. 

So maybe they say things like "why does [group] [negative stereotype]?" when what they mean is "haha all of [group] are [negative stereotype] so we all hate 'em, amirite folks? Come on, y'all all chime in and tell me what you also hate about [group]!"

You'll see that heavily used about certain races and genders, and often political discussions.

And sometimes they do thing like say, "Hey, what's the definition of that word you used?" instead of looking up the word, and yeah, lots of people do ask these questions genuinely, but trolls will specifically do it so people spend their time gently explaining, only to go "haha that's bullshit that group is just lazy/stupid/lying/criminal/whatever."

It's very frustrating and demorali, and if you've been on the other side of it a few times, you can get caught in the trap of thinking that people asking simple questions are *all* doing so in bad faith.

It's not fair to people who are being genuine, but it's definitely a side effect of compassion fatigue.

I didn't stop smoking while I was on it, just cut back by about 30%. And now that I quit taking it I'm at 150% of what I was at before.

It also doesn't make you feel less hungry 

Its so funny that people here answer who dont take it 

Gpl1 is produced in your body and lasts 2 minutes 

By now taking synthesized gpl1 its 24/7 present till it wears of

Doc said if the 25 is too much we’ll back down to 9. Going to have to wait and see how I do.

Sort of. There are drugs that make you absorb less of the fat that you eat, but if it doesn't get absorbed in the gut, it has to come out the end and it makes you have super gross greasy poops.

So like a reverse fart

Mass = energy, those are calories out

But then usually those people turn around and go "so no one should need any help they just need to do it and stop being lazy lardasses."

If CI<CO were that easy, no one would be overweight.

Same. 46 lbs / 21 kg down currently, 5kg over halfway to my target

The best way I can explain it is that it reduced the amount of "food noise." 

I would *always* be hungry.  I'd eat a meal and I'd still be hungry.  I knew I just ate.  But my body was saying, "want food."  I had to consciously ignore the state of my body that was always saying "yumyumyumyumyumyumyum."

Now, that's greatly reduced.  I'll eat and the yumyum noise stops.  I don't want to eat anymore.  I can go off and do literally anything else in life without that noise following me around.

Because of this, I've also felt full... and have learned to eat less so that I don't feel so blah after eating too much.  All of which has contributed to my losing about 15% body weight in a year and change and I'm still losing.  Slowly but surely.

Sorry, I meant antibodies when I said antigens. I'll edit my post!

People who are on it say that the "food noise" of always thinking about snacking or what they're going to eat next goes away, so there's definitely a psychological result that you could interpret simply as injectable willpower

I'm trying not to get on a soapbox but like, damn. I figure I'm lucky to have practiced fasting during my religious upbringing because I learned how to handle the "food noise" pretty easily. Not that I'm religious anymore, but I genuinely think people ought to try fasting--really fasting, not like 12 hours of not eating where 8 of them are spent sleeping.

We should all practice willpower more intentionally. Allow yourself to be bored and hungry, set your phone aside and just people-watch or look at the clouds or something. Immediate reward and constant stimulus aren't good for your brain all the time.

My phone doesn't render orca. Does that mean it doesn't support the latest unicode?

Your body is optimized by millions of years of evolution to extract every calorie it can from food, so this is a much tougher proposition. Calories are actually measured by burning food and measuring the heat produced (subtracting indigestible fiber). Your body's efficiency at extracting calories is close enough to just setting it on fire and measuring the heat that it actually works for calibrating weight loss.

Messing with the system is very risky, as it could impact the rate of absorption of nutrients etc., not to mention absolutely disgusting poops.

I am relatively thin but work in medicine and has access to try this. was overweight maybe 20 pounds and generally fit

huh?

I mean to be pedantic you can also lose weight via surgery.

Interesting but just 2 posts above this one I saw in my feed a about a new ozempic-like drug called beta2 that instead of reducing hunger improves sugar consumption in near-bone muscles, now ai probably butchered that explanation but the point is that there is at least one alternative

Antigens are whats in the shot or produced by the vaccine. Your immune system, and antibodies specifically, are whats reacting to the vaccine's antigens.

Every frame of a movie is a complete scene. You can stop at any frame and it's a complete picture (even if there is motion blur, that's part of the picture). A video game has to try and draw every frame in real time. Even at 30 fps it sometimes can't really complete the whole frame and so shows you what it can, that can result in "tears" and stuttering when the whole frame can't be drawn in time to show you. When a lot of stuff is happening, in the scene, that makes it worse.

With a film, heck, if you want you can hand draw each frame one day at a time, as long as you have a completed picture per frame, it looks great.

Take "Toy Story", it is all computer animated, but it was not filmed in real time. They used a computer to draw out an entire picture, capture that, then change the picture, then capture that, etc. The end result is a smooth flowing movie made up of thousands/millions of frames, each one rendered fully before being put in the movie.

With a computer game, every second is redrawn by the computer.

I understand that perspective and respect your right to see it that way.

I guess my last little bit of input would be that as a society, we've decided to turn a blind eye to it which does make us implicitly complicit as a whole.  It's one of those things when people say they're "not into politics" and other such things it absolves them of having to think about it and feel the weight of it.  I, personally, think it's a good thing to feel that weight and to understand what we're doing.  In the same way I feel the weight of bombing brown people half-way across the world with my tax dollars.  It doesn't send me into a depression on the daily or anything, but I am aware that it's a thing I'm living with, ya know?

I’ve been on Wegovy for a few months. Not only does it reduce appetite and allow me to feel full for longer, but if I do eat too much, it actually makes me feel a little nauseous.

That nauseous feeling really helps me stop eating when I’m full no matter how good the food tastes.

You likely had a crt monitor with a fairly low resolution compared to now.  

They did look better,  on that hardware.

Well I thought that may be specific to me, when I WAS hungry I wasn't eating the most healthy stuff, I figured that probably contributed to the GERD/burps. But yes the burps were constant and demonic, I regret not trying a PPI to see if it helped.

I mean, a hacksaw would work too.  How much does a leg weigh?

You’re laughing but it’s depressingly true…

I've been on GLPs since 2018 and so far it hasn't budged my will to smoke. Which actually surprises me because it definitely has made me very ho-hum about food. And in fact, if I'm bored, I'm not eating, I'm smoking. Because I'm still bored.

I've been working on quitting for a month or so now and I am surprised at how hard it is. Actually, it seems that perimenopause and the "blahs" that come from that have been a better help than GLPs.

Yes, the little green ones.  It's how they get so small

I genuinely think few Redditors understand the extent to which this site has become overrun with bots and karma farmers. It's like 60 percent of Reddit now.

The pants would also need to be oily to work.

I am on Zepbound and it quiets the food noise in the brain.  You definitely can't overeat, as I found out last night after serving myself a small portion of spaghetti - about 1 cup.  I threw it back up.  It regulates the bowels somehow too -  food travels through differently.

You literally cannot lose weight without being in a calorie deficit

Tell them about how demonic the burps are. These aren't your usual burps these are the devil's bowels made manifest from your mouth!

Honestly I stopped at 9 and am coasting on it until I hit goal weight. I literally couldn’t imagine going on 25mg—I am not sure I’d have eaten at all.

Isn't there any way to make the calorie intake for each food less?

Let's say a day you eat what is worth of 2000 kcal, any way of making your body take 80% of it instead of 100%? There are people that can eat a lot and not gain weight so the body must have some system to not take everything you eat

It's targeting insulin and sugar metabolism.  So the mechanism is appetite, but it's a bit more complicated than just "willpower".

If your blood sugar gets too high or too low, you die.  So your body has a bunch of mechanisms for keeping it even.  For people who have healthy endocrine systems, if you eat 400 calories worth of candy, you'll stay full for just as long as if you had 400 calories worth of ham sandwich.  But for people who have inefficient endocrine systems (either for genetic reasons, or because they have a long history of overconsuming sugar), eating 400 calories worth of candy will make their blood sugar get all out of whack, those mechanisms kick in, and they'll get really hungry again really quickly.  While if they ate 400 calories worth of ham sandwich, they'd stay just as full for just as long as the person with the normal endocrine system.

The reason that diabetic medications like Ozempic work to suppress appetite so well, is that a huge number of people have mildly disregulated endocrine systems that are not bad enough to give them diabetes.  So yeah, they're losing weight because their appetite got lower.  But it's making their appetite more similar to the appetites of people with healthy endocrine systems.

I saw a short documentary about Prader-Willi a long time ago and found it really disturbing. Seeing the parents who had to literally lock the refrigerator and pantry, with chains and everything. Just sad.

Was at a marina right before a thunder storm. This floppy aluminum sign blew off and hit this guy in the head. He was like “did you see that shit?” I was like “your head is hanging off!!” His scalp was flopped over and looked like white flesh. Not bloody. Was weird.

Hormonal imbalance that increases appetite. Most of the people with down syndrome I know literally never feel full.

I recall that and it wasn't a drug per day but a food additive that was added for example potato chips. The chips tasted like they were deep fried like normal potato chips. Instead this fake/artificial fat when eaten, the body would NOT absorb it, but instead pass thru your gut...thus massive bouts of diahreara after consuming just a single serving bag. This came out to market in the 90s... I was one of those customers who bought and suffered the Hershey squirts for 48 hours. It was taken off the shelves within 18 months or so...so many people had this adverse reaction.

Most Americans are overweight, so most people in any group will generally be overweight

Doesn’t help food has been manufactured to be addicting haha

Think of your immune system as like a highly vigilant security officer who takes his job very seriously because any infiltrator can potentially cause great damage to the body if left unchecked. When he sees a suspect individual (usually by matching them to a list of similar past suspect individuals), he sounds the alarm and the area gets flooded with more officers while everything is shut down so the officers can do their job of eradicating the disease.

In the case of allergies however, the officer keeps misinterpreting a harmless individual as being dangerous so he unnecessarily sounds the alarm and shuts down the place. The security officer in this case is probably racist.

I mean, do you even know how many calories you burn fighting someone though?

If we can't have universal healthcare we should at least get unregulated amphetamines at truck stops SMH

Feels like there should be another unit for this. That 6% number sounds misleading now if it's 100% carbon that can be there.

I didn't say they were. In fact, that's why I specifically said "I've always attributed it to..."

It’s specially common where it’s tied at 15, the server often says “5 all”

Daily poops go away, now you squirt out a line of toothpaste every 48 hours. You burp constantly.

That's still mostly on your diet. The slowed food movement may mean you need more fiber, and most people don't eat enough fiber to begin with.

I would not be surprised because I have encountered and argued with *many* of them.

Does that have something to do with why NaCl contributes to greater hydration interms of human/sports-nutrition?

Addiction is a weird thing.

Going on a diet usually doesn’t work for people without extenuating circumstances, so it’s not like it makes much difference. Long-term lifestyle changes must happen - difficult in that position.

The thyroid is a small hormone producing gland. Low thyroid is more common in women than men, sometimes you can get the equivalent of an auto immune response to thyroid cells which causes damage to the gland itself. Enough damage over time and the body won't make enough of the hormone for normal metabolic function, so usually those folks talk supplemental thyroid hormone for life. Its actually one of the most common complications of pregnancy so when you consider the proportion of women that get pregnant that partially explains why it is so much more common.

There are also hyperthyroid conditions, but generally are less common overall than hypothyroidism but do occur.

Two of my relatives have used GLP-1 meds, both remarked on the decreased alcohol consumption along with the appetite decrease.

Dnp can feel like a fever lol

Wow there is some wrong information on here and some unfortunate opinions. 

There are massive interactions between insulin and the bodies hormones which the GLP1 impacts.   Calorie deficit is not the main mechanism for the weight loss otherwise this technique would work without the drug! Restriction for intake is proven not to be effective for many people,  and we know from the research on PCOS that insulin and it's impacts to hormones that there are other mechanisms at play that these drugs impact. 

There is a huge amount we are learning around how the body works, but it is painful to have people repeatedly infer that if you're overweight obviously you are just lazy and overeat.   

The "its just calorie reduction" can be a barrier emotionally to people seeking help from these drugs which are proven to work and offer hope for those that have tried everything they can and still struggle.

People are so obsessed with the concept ls of weakness and willpower. In fact, the people who tend to have poor outcomes in change are the people who try to power through everything because they are easily the most susceptible to cognitive bias. The lack of willingness or openness to alternatives leaves them rigidly stuck to the exact mentality that prevents change

It's helps you lose weight by deleting your bone marrow

You'd be amazed at how many people will straight up fight you for suggesting that CI<CO is the only way to lose weight

that may be the way it is for you, but not everyone is like that

Welcome to Reddit!  Where far too many "facts" are made up, yet the technically correct will be ridiculed mercilessly.

was not expecting to find an uwu in THIS sub

For some, sure.

A lot of folks it isn’t just being bored. It happens when active and not just sitting on the couch.

Well...I might too. 

I'm *always* bored lol

The Japanese Yen and USD were at about par until WW II. Japan lost, had their country and economy destroyed. They had massive inflation during the war and the post war years. But the inflation slowed down once the economy stabilized. 

Compare to German that kept changing their currency (Papiermark > Rentenmark > Reichsmark > Deutsche Mark > Euro), Japan stuck with the Yen and just dealt with huge numbers.

Less hungry. Fixed it.

Can confirm. I didn’t think it would help me because I wasn’t snacking because of hunger, but because I liked food - especially sugary stuff. I was wrong. I started taking it and found I just had a lot less interest in food. And frequently in the middle of a meal I’d just get this “I’m done” sensation. Kind of like “I’m full,” but with almost a threat behind it? Like, “If you keep eating, you’re gonna regret it.” Anyway, 30+ pounds down at this point.

That’s awesome for you. Not how my brain works. It’s how I’ve always wished my brain worked, but alas, I have true food addiction.

Th8s might be the best explain like im 5 ever.

My dad always said it’s not the fall that kills you, it’s the sudden stop.

In addition to comorbid genetic variables, it doesn't help that the patient and/or the caregivers likely struggle with the mental load of maintaining proper nutrition and exercise.

Didn't they suggest wearing brown pants? Lol.

well arrows and corners were more of an example really, i'm happy either way

First off, "Army Men"????

Anyway, that drug is called ephedrine/ephedra, and I have never heard of anyone in the Army who took it to get warm in the cold. That is crazy.

Not at all, I totally agree with you. It’s the difference between putting on a coat vs becoming more cold tolerant. Similar end result of feeling less cold, but entirely different mechanisms of achieving the result.

CDN (Content Delivery Network). You keep copies in different locations so that users in different areas have lower pings to access content

Alcohol too. I just don’t want a few beers on a Friday night like I used to.

I kinda started it, and you were trying to avoid it, so really no worries. I think you were right to agree to disagree, so have a good one, sincerely

I've always attributed that "food noise" to boredom. 

I'm a bored snacker. I'm being a slug and not getting off the couch all day? I'm also bored and snacking. 

If my mind is occupied, food is the last thing I think of. I dunno.

First actual ELI5 I've seen in ELI5 in months, well done.

I’m on the Weegovy pill. I will tell you straight up. I have ZERO desire for food. Like none. Tomorrow I love up to the highest dosage (25mg…currently on the 9mg pill). I can only imagine what’s in store for me. Like sometimes seeing food makes me nauseous. Don’t even want to eat. Also, when I do eat I feel full wayyyyyy faster than before. A bad side affect is that the food digests slower and in the morning sometimes I have bad reflux and bad burps of the previous nights dinner. Also, I get really dehydrated easier now. Have to drink lots of water.

It’s was a refreshing side effect to look at a cocktail and say: meh.

Plus side, I'm running consistently on 5 hours of sleep perfectly normally.

Downside, it *really* doesn't help with my anxiety.

Only a certain % of fat you ate... that's why people pooped their pants.

Very interesting. I'll look more into it!

Oh, and in rare cases like Prader-Willi, the brain literally never gets a "full" signal.

I once had someone I worked with described PW syndrome as gods evil joke. 

Not only do they not feel full…they are absolutely starving at all times and have no gag reflux. They will die because they do not vomit after over eating.

That’s just scratching the surface

Great video explaining that:  

The TL;DR: your immune system needs a method to kill parasites... so it tracks unknown substances and goes all in at killing them.

I forgot how the place was called, but I recently found out in that place because of too much fertiliser it goes not just to river water but also to tap water. Well of course not all of the fertiliser but some stuff from it goes to water which makes water undrinkable or close to it.

What a minor side effect,  sign me right the fuck up!

I am using reta, switching from Mounjaro 

Not feeling it ;(

My endocrinologist was very clear about this (I took it for diabetes) when I asked her. 

It’s definitely NOT just appetite suppression. 

That’s a factor, she explained, but these drugs also have major effects on your digestion, and particularly in how you metabolize sugars (which includes all carbohydrates).

Ive used both Tirzepetide and Retatrutide.    There is definitely a boost to metabolism in the Retatrutide.   I track calories to a precise amount and I increased my caloric intake and lost weight while on Retatrutide.  With just Tirzepetide I could drink a glass of water and feel full for hours.  Retatrutide did not have the same apetite suppression, if any at all.

sleep conditions

Trisomnia :p

Was it tetanus?  My doc was right about that one.  She said that "it'll feel like someone socked you in the arm for a few days".

Thank you, literally needed this as im about to sit down to design a tiny display and needed icons

The joke is that Japan does everything right but their economy doesn't grow, while Argentina can do everything wrong and somehow still have a functioning economy.

That is so entirely not what the joke was...

The joke was that Japan is a richer country despite doing things that richer countries have tended not to do. Specifically, Japan is relatively resource-poor and has a government that is heavily involved in the economy.

Argentina, on the other hand, has all of the makings of a richer country yet is not living up to this expectation. Argentina is supposedly resource-rich and practices laissez-faire capitalism yet is poorer than many other countries that do so.

Here's an article that talks about how Japan's development model has proved successful in other countries as well, showing that Japan is not unique and that the quote is about the development model that made Japan rich.

At the start of the 20th century Japan started off as a 3rd world nation

What the actual hell are you talking about? At the beginning of the 20th century, Japan was already pretty well off.

In 1895, Japan had defeated China in the first Sino-Japanese War. In 1905, Japan defeated Russia in the Russo-Japanese War, a major European power at the time.

It was in 1853, when the Sakoku period ended, that Japan was bad. And Japan then took the next five-ish decades to build itself up militarily and economically. But that's over a period of almost half a century.

So much of what you said is just completely wrong.

I was only thinking about GLP-1s, but I suppose that's true. Having a fever also increases metabolism and we can purposefully give people fevers technically.

Thanks! You learn something new every day eh?

\- their carers may rely on said consistent foods to calm them down

Can confirm the "food noise" goes away, as does thinking about your next meal. Daily poops go away, now you squirt out a line of toothpaste every 48 hours. You burp constantly. Food still tastes good, but it's somehow much less enjoyable. I drank less, often only having a few sips of a beer before dumping it. I am relatively thin but work in medicine and has access to try this. was overweight maybe 20 pounds and generally fit, Im pretty active but middle aged, dad bod. Lost 20 pounds in 6 weeks, no complaints. I think there's risks in regards to eating disorders, but feel this should be available to anybody willing to try it to lose weight.

Glp1 makes you hungry? Lol

I don't really need to explain how a car gets into you kitchen to explain how salt melts ice on roads. Unless your kitchen is on a frozen road? Do you have BBQs in the middle of the street? Maybe a nice buffet on a dual carriageway way? Or cook a romantic meal for two on a motorway?

Thyroid is a gland on the front of your neck, that controls hormones related to metabolism. Thyroid issues could lead to weigh gain/loss, together with other symptoms (heart rate, feeling cole, fatigue, etc).

The weight loss mechanism is that the peptide is a hormone that slows down your digestive system and therefore it takes longer for you to process the food through the system, by this action it takes longer to actually get hungry. The issue is that if the person who's on these drugs does not learn to eat the proper way, and what I mean by that is not just eating less but eating correctly with this right nutrients, and protein in a certain pattern in way if you decide to get off the drug at some point you have would have learned how to eat in in such a manner to manage your weight long-term. Not to mention there are long-term adverse and side effects that can happen to a number of patients. But it is known that once you get off that medication you will gain all your weight back. So therefore most people stay on it for life.

For me, it was alcohol. Zero cravings.

Do you think it's still worth it? Gotta get that summer body!

Where you are injected, the pressure of the injection, and the volume injected are all important possible causes.

The intense muscle soreness you're experiencing isn't from being penetrated, but specifically where and in which tissue you were penetrated, uwu. Intramuscular injections, especially high volume ones, cause soreness through the agitation of the tissue and resultant inflation, even when handled perfectly. If the exact injection site is missed, or too much pressure is used on the syringe, the irritation and soreness can be much worse.

With vein based injections, it is easier for the shot's contents to move, and they also are generally lower volume. If your veins are large and easy to target, they are also easier to aim at\* correctly.

Tall people prefer tall people. That's also why we have shorter people.

It's even funnier because GLP-1 literally does alter hormone levels since insulin is a hormone.

We don't really know.

One dominant hypothesis (as described in the book "Immune!" by Philipp Dettmer) is that our immune system evolved to deal with a lot more parasites than we deal with now. Parasites - not single-celled threats or a little virus dust, but full-on organisms with their own immune systems, complex systems, and batteries of specialized chemical weapons - are a whole step up in complexity to deal with for the body from bacteria or virii. They evolve systems to confound, disrupt, and suppress our immune system that single-celled stuff can't because it fundamentally doesn't have room to be that complex.

In response, our immune system evolved to be able to associate weird triggers with an immune response. Like... You can't just use the protein-coat of the cells like you can with bacteria because this worm jackass is secreting a mucus that confounds touching its cells. But there's gotta be *something* it can't hide... Like the mucus, or its waste products. Something that normally wouldn't trigger an immune response by itself, but coupled with indicators that the body is parasitized, like inflammations or cell damage... May indicate a problem. Now, this all works if you have worms. But if you live in a place with good sanitation and *never* get worms... This system learns to trigger on other things, because it's not "wired" to just assume parasites never happen.

So the theory is that when an allergic response occurs, what's happening is that a mechanism intended for anti-parasitic response has been triggered when there's no parasite there. Maybe it got primed up because you had a bad cold at the same time you were exposed to something else and the immune system "decided" that other thing was parasite signal and the bad cold was actually a parasitic infection. Then when you're exposed to the other thing, your body goes "PARASITE!" and whips out the big guns. And the guns have to be big because, again, parasites are equipped to actively fight their host's immune system so the body responds to them with what modern military tacticians affectionately refer to as "Decisive and disproportionate response."

For earlier gens, yes. But most people on reta report that their appetite is not as reduced as mounjaro/etc, and we know for certain that it increases metabolism. It is certainly a part of why reta works.

Thyroid drugs can and do significantly change a person's metabolism. As does DNP.

Thank you! Don’t know why I got downvoted for that lol. I’m fifteen so idk if knowing what a thyroid issue is is normal for adults and that’s why

Hopefully not by returning to nicotine because your cravings went through the roof.

Pretty much yeah. It's a real effect though, not just psychological your body is actually experiencing all the sensations of being full sooner. 

Most people do not have metabolic issues. Study after study after study finds that while there is variance is people's BMR for a given height and weight, it's not usually very significant. And the easiest way to increase BMR is to add muscle mass. 

Increasing overall calorie burn is also incredibly important through activity. Humans aren't eating astronomically more calories now than we were 50 years ago, but we are moving astronomically less. Combined with a moderate increase in calories and you get obesity.

There are many varieties but hypothyroidism would be the main one here. It's where the thyroid is less active than normal, which slows your metabolism down,  makes you very low energy and more.  You can look up thyroiditis if you're interested in learning more

As a person with hypothyroidism, this is a great explanation

It makes what you eat digest slower making you feel full longer. Trizepitide or zepound also helps quite cravings although I’m not sure how. You still need to be on a calorie deficit and make lifestyle changes. That’s why most people gain the wait back because they don’t use their new state of mind to change habits.

Thank you! Don’t know why I got downvoted for that lol. I’m fifteen so idk if knowing what a thyroid issue is is normal for adults and that’s why

Pulling it apart leads to small scale uneven breaking, exposing more holes and leaving peaks. The knife cuts the peaks at doesn’t expose as many holes. So it’s the other way around, the knife doesn’t fill anything in. You can try it yourself, pretty low stakes experiment lol

No, the food noise is 100% a factor that goes away. There are plenty of times where I would get hungry midday and it always resulted in a snack. The need to snack was so distracting most days, I had to have it.

Now if I get a twinge of hunger between meals, the thought to snack pops in my head and flows away once and I have no urge to act. It doesn’t linger until I do something.

It was like a switch flipped a day after I started

There is a Soviet era drug that makes the body burn a ton of fat as heat, but the main side effect is death

Was in a medical talk about a medical examiner stuff. They covered the tsunami In Thailand.

Most dearh are due to multiple fractures by being crushed to death. 

Also crops es will raise heir arms due to bloating...

There was an earlier post today about fat burning medication that would make you literally quite hot. Used by extreme gym goers and army men who need heat in the cold. There are some side effects though.

Also things like uncouplers, which basically short-circuit our mitochondria. These were once marketed as drugs for weight loss or training but they're very dangerous and should not be used

Your body has a tiny gas pedal in your neck. When it's broken and goes too slow, you gain weight.

I have a friend who's using it; I asked him the other day how it was going for him, and it seems to be going well, but he also says he's constantly scared shitless.

They also reduce inflammation. With inflammation comes excess fluid, so reducing inflammation reduces fluid weight.

There's still video on YouTube of the tsunami that hit Japan in 2011...

In my experience they do. I took glp1 for 6 months and when I stopped my nicotine cravings went through the roof. Kept the weight off though so that was nice.

I believe they referred to it as 'oily discharge'.

There’s orlistat which makes prevents your body from absorbing fat by inhibiting the lipase enzyme that breaks down fat in your intestines. 

It makes potty time fun.

Feels like you’re trying to imply something

Picric acid looking guiltily around while amphetamines take the blame :)

the drug you're referring to is orlistat, and there are plenty of horror stories of people shitting themselves

Kurzgesagt did an interesting video about it. 

My personal take away is that it curbs the impulse to eat.

Redundancy, in case the original data ceases to work or is corrupted.

I can tell you that I was on chemo recently, and if they didn't stagger the doses (one round every other week) I would have withered away to nothing, because I had almost zero appetite while the chemo was in my system. Having no appetite is shockingly good at making you lose weight. Once I was off chemo, I gained that 25lbs back in 2 weeks lol. Food is glorious

Yes, OVH. I think those were managed servers, which is a different sort of data center. But yes, lots of data loss.

There are several possibilities that come to mind.

Mainly, since your question is about vaccinations, is that some elicit a stronger immune response. For example, The COVID vaccinations elicit a strong local reaction for me and my upper arm is pretty sore for a couple days. Tetanus booster creates a mild soreness for about a day for me.

For medications, some cause soreness because of the physical volume of the injection. Most vaccines are only 0.5mL or less, but many intramuscular injections of medications are 1mL and some are even 2mL, and that extra volume causes pain. 

Additionally, some medications irritate the tissue, such as promethazine for nausea or the antibiotic ceftriaxone (which we frequently mix with lidocaine for that reason).

No that is the cloud. 💭

/s

It's barely even that, it's just triggering the "I'm full" feeling - whether or not that actually stops someone from eating is sort of a different thing lol

And the skill of the person giving the injection, trust me.

Theres a genetic component and a exposure component. 

Generally, sometimes your body will be exposed to an otherwise harmless substance. Your immune system doesnt react violently the first couple times but, eventually it starts building a defense for the next time it sees that substance. Then when it sees it again it freaks out.

I'll address the increased boiling point for salt dissolved in water.  It is true that the boiling point is higher than for pure water.  It has to do with this phenomenon called vapor pressure.  Vapor pressure is the pressure exerted by the vapor coming off of the substance.  In the case of water, it is water vapor.  That's not really the same as steam - it's water molecules that have left the liquid phase and are now a gas.  Steam is droplets of water.  Vapor pressure increases with the temperature of the material, whatever the material is.  When salt is dissolved in water (so sodium and chloride ions distributed throughout the water and attracted to the water molecules by virtue of their positive and negative charges, respectively), the vapor pressure of the solution is reduced at any given temperature.  Boiling occurs when the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the atmospheric pressure.  So with salt water, the temp needs to be higher than with plain water, to obtain boiling.

ELI5 version is that the salt is broken up into sodium and chloride ions when dissolved in water, and the ions hold onto the water molecules and don't let them jump into the air as easily, so you need a higher temperature to get that to happen.

OP asked about arrows and corners, not emojis.

This is the actual explanation: 

The first computers did not have graphics except for "characters". Most characters were letters and numbers, but eventually people wanted more advanced graphics, like boxes.

To be able to draw boxes around things, some new characters were added that could be used to build boxes: corners and lines. Some others were also added like the symbol for 1/2, or copyright.

When Unicode was designed, it was meant to be able to do everything that could be done by earlier computers so those symbols were added as well.

I don't believe the increase is enough to effectively cause weight loss. Essentially of the weight loss from these drugs comes from eating less calories.

It has to do with the extra chromosome and how it affects intelligence. I've been treating down syndrome and it's patients for a long time and it's very hard to get them to go on a diet.

Some factors might be 

-drugs that they take to help manage mood or behaviour. 

-people with autism often have poor motor skills and sense of their own body too, so they won't get as much excersize, might not feel that they are full etc. 

-some have restricted diets and will only eat very consistent textures like bread chicken nuggets etc

-they and their carers might have less money and time to dedicate to eating healthy

Oh, I think I misunderstood you. I thought you we suggesting that only one user can watch one file at the same time. My bad.

We live in a world where food is abundant in developed countries. Obesity and generally being overweight are difficulties large numbers of people struggle with. It's not surprising that people with intellectual issues can't control their weight and eating habits, if people without those issues can't either. If we can't teach people with all their faculties to manage their weight, then it's not surprising it's harder to teach someone with learning disabilities to do so too.

While some diseases do have weight and growth issues as part of the disease, it's not really an issue that's specific to just those people. Additionally, people with intellectual issues are more likely to face childhood obesity due to environmental factors, such as parents giving them treats to make them happy (as it can be harder to rationalise with them and most of us enjoy a tasty treat for example), and the aforementioned difficulty in teaching them about healthy habits, food management, portion control, exercise etc. As well as the fact some of them are just unable to exercise.

Basically, there's a tonne of reasons people are overweight, but it's not really specific to people with disabilities. They're just more prone to the pitfalls we all are capable of falling into.

Did they put that green info window on at the end so we didn't see the poor bastard on the back of the lorry die? What a terrifying perspective.

The Mayo Clinic has a good page on this.

ELI5 summary: it makes you feel full, but it also makes you actually full longer by slowing down digestion, and it helps regulate blood sugar while also increasing how much energy your body burns. 

Eating less is the most important reason people lose weight on these medications, but it isn't the only reason.

Willpower alone will not also provide the blood sugar regulation benefits of a GLP1. But not all overweight people need that.

What’s a thyroid issue?

Basicly the pressense of the dissolved salt molecules interrupts the water ability to change state. So either more energy is needed to shake off the salt and form a gas (the salt is keeping it from flying away) or less energy is needed to form crystals and become a solid (the salt is in the way and doesn't fit into the crystal formation). 

Technically the salt doesn't melt the ice. Adding salt only works at temperatures where the ice would melt and re-freeze anyway, the salt just keeps it from re-freezing.

That is amazing. The "miracle weight loss drug" is simply a mechanism to help us "stop eating so much".  
Dang!

I heard that they are exploring the possibility that some of the GLP-1 drugs might have positive outcomes for other addictions like nicotine in addition to foods like sugar.

Because of the way we store information...  
We chose the byte (8bit) as the basic information unit, and almost all data types use 2\^n bytes.  
  
so the netural ammounts of characters are:  
1 byte lets you store 256 symbols.  
2 bytes  =2\^16 = 65,536 = barely enouth. Chinese alone has \~50,000 symbols.  
4 bytes = 2\^32 = 4294967296. enough for everything. 

So you may "need" only 70K symbols and end up 4 billion spares you can allocate to imogis and junk 😄  
neutral amounts

We already had trucker grade amphetamines that did this and were for sale at gas stations across America but they made them illegal

Yeah the food noise bit you mention is likely what people have found with regard to reductions in non-food cravings (eg alcohol)

It depends on how your body's antigens and white blood cells react. Sometimes unfamiliar food can cause a reaction that leads to swelling from histamines as your body believes the food is a parasite.

It seems to primarily be calorie driven. Delayed gastric emptying leads to less food intake, and it does have some effects on the reward/dopamine hit of eating. There might be other mechanisms but they're not fully understood yet, but those will be minor players compared to rescued calorie intake.

The weight loss comes from appetite suppression (which is complicated) and many other benefits seem to come from some other hormone related interactions. The weight loss causes some benefits, the drug seems to have other effects that go beyond what simple weight loss would cause.

I'm definitely not an expert, so I won't claim that you're wrong there, but I'm pretty certain that isn't explicitly true of the base hardware.

 It's probably configured so that it functions that way by using cache servers and such, but if 1 million people try to load the exact same video off the exact same server at the exact same time there would definitely have to be issues. There just isnt enough bandwidth.

Your body is reacting to the vaccine's contents. Pain and soreness is a result of your body's defenses jumping to action at the site of injection. Exactly how that feels and how long it lasts has to do with the vaccine itself and somewhat your own personal biology.

Salt doesn't necessarily melt the ice, think of it more like the salt makes the water harder to freeze

Didn't that Ally drug that made you poo your pants stop you from absorbing/processing calories?

Doing it at 9 months is WILDLY different than at birth though. Like, some 9 month olds are walking around! I don't think you can use that experience to make comparisons to doing it at birth.

Retatrutide activates glucagon receptors to increase metabolism.

there are so many good answers here from loads of people in less than 20 minutes and i don't know how much it matters to say this (not like i can mark anything as a solution here anyways) but thanks to all of you

Becomes a blender of debris. Not a good situation but preventable with enough of a warning and understanding visual clues too

that doesn't make any sense whatsoever. Cutting an English muffin does not magically fill in the nooks and crannies

Down syndrome comes with reduced metabolism.
 Healthline.

It also has high comorbidity with other health conditions (thyroid conditions, sleep conditions) that affect metabolism, and physical limitations that affect activity levels.

I don't think they were saying GLP-1s alter hormones. I think they were saying we do have ways to change metabolism, not that this product is that.

I don't think they were implying that they do

Yes, OVH's datacenter in Strasbourg. They lost data but thankfully I had backups.

I agree...I would even say it is cruel when a quick death is an option.

Before the tsunami comes rushing in and the coastal waters recedes, a great many of people were killed by being lulled onto the newly appeared flats collecting fish and other stranded sea life.

And, of course, everyone in this thread knows that what you *really* mean is  a glyph still not *perfectly* replicable in Unicode. 😉

by regularly adding more hard drives (or entire data centers)

If you can explain how a car engine gets into my kitchen to melt the ice in my ice cream maker then I'm all for it, otherwise sure, we can agree to disagree

Yeh, I dunno..  Looks like the mods noticed though, they deleted the post.

Most GLP medications do it solely through reducing your appetite, yes. However, retatutride, which is a newer one, does increase your metabolic rate.

Sort of both. It reduces appetite by mimicking a hormone called GLP-1 that makes you feel hungry, and it also makes food move slower through your system so your stomach stays full longer. People who are on it say that the "food noise" of always thinking about snacking or what they're going to eat next goes away, so there's definitely a psychological result that you could interpret as simply injectable willpower. 

Mechanically, though, a caloric deficit is really the only way to lose weight. You either increase the amount of calories you burn or you decrease the amount of calories you eat. In this case, you're decreasing the amount of calories you eat because you're decreasing your urge to consume those calories. There is some small amount of evidence that drugs like Ozempic are directly affecting fat metabolism, but that still falls under the umbrella of calories in, calories out.

As I understand it, it’s more like reducing someone’s appetite than increasing willpower. Kind of like how Chantix helps people quit smoking. It’s not like they feel just as hungry (or have the same cigarette craving) but can now overcome it; they feel less hunger.

I know it’s kind of nitpicking, but i think there’s a bit of a difference.

How do GLP-1s alter hormone levels?

The only other real way would be to make your body not absorb calories (we have drugs that increase metabolism but they are very dangerous and also very unpleasant so pretty much nobody uses them). 

So yeah they’re basically just appetite suppressants

i know that in SK they had a burnt data center with millions of important documents lost forever because no one thought of having backups

Because they have copies in multiple regions to reduce bandwidth.

Sure we do. Hormones!

They know which regions get more views to specific videos. So they’d store those on servers in that region.

They know which videos are less popular overall, so there are fewer copies of those, which is why you’d likely have more buffering issues with those than others.

That’s true, but I’ve seen accounts farming karma that have like 20k+ karma, and I don’t know why they need it that high.

I would happily sell my account, I've never had the opportunity though, I have a bunch of low-ranked video game accounts too, apparently those are valuable too, but isn't it illegal? And then expecting a successful payment seems iffy at best...

Good question! I had a tetanus shot two months ago and it hurt for 3 days.

Yeah, wasn't it OVH?

i really thought that videos from the 2000s were actually just 240-360p originally and that my memory must have made those old videos seem higher quality than they were

There was a lot of available address space, so they just did it. I'm sure everything was useful to someone at least once.

Ohhh I see. Wow a lot of layers for something that shouldn’t be complicated. I can see why the whole thing fell.

Picture the interface between pure water and ice. At 0°C water is exiting the ice phase --->> liquid at the same rate it's exiting the liquid phase  ---> ice phase resulting in no net change .

Now add salt. Salt is present in the liquid phase only. At the interface, ions of salt occupy the space of water  and hold onto water molecules inhibiting the transport of water into the ice phase. This shifts the dynamic equilibrium to lower temperatures which means ice is formed at lower temps.

Same thing explains boiling temp rise.

Until I was about 1/3 through this comment, I thought it was going to be about how important being able to send carrot emojis was to people in Japan. That's pretty cool!

honestly quite incredible

Can we agree to disagree? 😁

It is really only altering caloric intake. We don't have a way to significantly change a person's metabolism.

3 month old account

13.5k karma

XD

Where do you find this data? Thanks!

Because some early computer graphics systems represented stuff like arrows, lines, and corners in exactly the same way that they represented characters of text. Unicode was meant to be a replacement for everything, so it needed to include that stuff too.

I think you meant LaTeX.  

When you say LATEX, it just looks like you're discussing rubber loudly.

It's a few things stacking up, lower muscle tone (hypotonia) means a slower metabolism right out of the gate, plus thyroid issues are way more common in Down syndrome. Then you've got behavioral stuff, limited physical activity, sensory issues that make healthy foods hard to eat, and sometimes meds that pack on pounds.

None of it's about "willpower"; it's just biology and circumstance working against them. Oh, and in rare cases like Prader-Willi, the brain literally never gets a "full" signal.

So yeah, not a mystery, just a shitty hand of cards.

"This is not financial advice".

In the past people used special fonts like for example Wingdings which had various symbols in place of letters. Because treating symbols as text (as opposed to embedding images) is easy and convenient.

Unicode aims to collect all these common symbols in one place so that you don't need to switch to a different font for a particular symbol, which also makes the meaning independent of the font. For example you might use a font that for typing the letter J would give you a smiley face, but if somewhere along the way the font was changed it would not appear as a smiley face any more. With Unicode every symbol remains what it is.

Lastly, there's no reason not to. The Unicode character space is so vast, it's not even close to filled, and the committee can afford to splurge.

It largely depends on how strongly your bodies antigens react to whatever is in the shot.

Take two pots of water. One just has water, the other has water plus a whole head of broccoli in it.

Which one is going to take longer to boil and freeze? Don't get too sciency, just use your common sense. 

The one with broccoli will take longer because you have a huge solid in it that energy has to be added to, or taken away from, in order for the state to change.

With molecules, it's no different. If you add salt to water, you have to take away more energy to make it freeze because the salt in the water is holding extra energy. And to make it boil, you have to add more energy because the salt has to heat up in addition to the water. The result is that it needs to get colder for the the salt water to freeze and hotter for the salt water to boil.

Are you asking why backups should exist?

Some of them are math or logic symbols. If you want to write out equations or include them in a UI element, you'll need them. 

Some of them are meant to be used as diacritical elements on text. That's how "glitch text" works (like this site:  So, they aren't meaningful elements on their own, but they help reduce the number of characters required by the full character set.

And, some really are decorative, like the glyphs in Wingdings or Webdings fonts. Sometimes you're creating a document or some other output that has to exist entirely in text, and you need box sides or corners to represent things. It's a lot easier to flag the corners of a print proof with corner characters rather than try to logic out the scale of an svg to accomplish the same task. Or, if you want a bulleted list, you don't want to figure out how to draw a • specifically for your page. You just want the browser to recognize that \`<li>\` means "write a left margin, then \`\&#x2022;\` then the element content."

In a lot of cases, you *could* accomplish the same goal with svg or a graphic, but treating those elements as a text character from a global, standard character set just simplifies life so much.

Not a reddit expert, but maybe they can't post in the target subs until they get their karma up?  There are some subs that I follow that can get a bit testy, mainly Ukraine War subs.

Also, videos with few views get heavily compressed after a certain age. You will not find a 2 year old video in 4K that only has a dozen views.

How can it be different without being higher or lower? Its not like you can apply left thermal energy or right thermal energy its just thermal energy

I mean, kinda? But the salt works even without engines. It works in the lab. It works on the sidewalk. I don't think engines have a lot to do with it, if at all.

I looked up how salt gets from the layer of water into the rest of the ice and apparently the layer of water isn't static, normally individual molecules on the surface constantly thaw and freeze, but the temperature being constant means there's an equal number of them thawing and freezing. Salt in the surface water makes it so they can't refreeze, so it slowly melts the ice. That sounds kind of like what you're saying, but the engine doesn't have anything to do with it.

Look up LATEX sometime.

People need symbols for language, especially if you're writing about math, logic, linguistics, science, electronics, even economics and technology.

For math and logic, you need operators and logic unions, for linguistics you need the whole of the IPA let alone symbols for specific languages, for science you're going to need symbols for constants, for electronics, you're going to need standard label symbols used by industry, for science you're going to need common notation, for economics you're going to need the symbols used in worldwide currency exchanges, and for technology, you're going to have to wrap in all the symbols used in historic codepages so that you don't have to fall back to them when you encounter text used in some 1979 document written for some obscure sub-variant of an programming language for a mainframe that someone's trying to revive. Or all those dorky "ANSI" graphics in that .NFO file in that scene text in the warez group file you want to view. Or a document written in C64 PETSCII graphics.

What do you mean PETSCII isn't fully implemented in UNICODE? WHAT IS THIS NONSENSE? HEADS WILL ROLL!

If two points are collinear and the third isn't collinear with them then the three points aren't collinear

But surely if you added an equivalent amount of molecules at the same temperature as salt but were non-polar you would not see the dissolution if the crystal structure?

Reddit has a karma reward program where higher karma = more money. I feel this has corrupted the website by providing a financial incentive for copy paste, fake, or AI slop posts.

100 million. Best I can do, I know what I have, take it or leave it

Dude even copy pasted the typo "propaply"

ChatGPT responded:
I'd be cautious about accepting either extreme claim: "60 Minutes always lies" or "60 Minutes has never engaged in misleading editing."

The more accurate answer is:

Yes, 60 Minutes has faced credible accusations of misleading editing and factual errors over the years.

No, that does not mean everything the program reports is false or that it is fundamentally a fraud.

Some examples:

In 2021, a widely criticized segment about Florida's vaccine rollout and Ron DeSantis was accused of omitting important context. Even some fact-checkers concluded that the editing could reasonably be viewed as misleading because viewers didn't hear key parts of DeSantis's explanation. 

More recently, the Kamala Harris interview controversy led to a lawsuit from Donald Trump alleging deceptive editing. CBS maintained that the interview was edited in a routine journalistic manner and did not alter the substance of her answer. Paramount ultimately settled the lawsuit without an apology or admission of wrongdoing, which leaves people drawing very different conclusions about what the settlement means. 

The key issue is that editing is unavoidable in television journalism. A one-hour interview might be reduced to a few minutes. The real question is whether the edits change the meaning of what someone said.

Reasonable people can disagree about specific cases:

Critics argue that some edits have materially changed viewers' impressions.

Defenders argue that selective editing is normal and only becomes unethical if it changes the speaker's meaning. 

So if someone says:

"Put it into ChatGPT and you'll see that 60 Minutes has been lying for years."

My response would be:

There have been documented controversies, corrections, and allegations of misleading editing. That's true of many major news organizations. But the evidence does not support the blanket claim that "60 Minutes has been lying for years" as a general description of the program. Each disputed report has to be evaluated on its own facts.

In fact, one healthy habit is to distrust broad claims from either side. When someone says a news outlet is "always truthful" or "always lying," they're usually oversimplifying a much messier reality.

Half of that is because you're standing on sand.

But Gabanozo beans alone can never be called hummus

That’s still less than I thought

These are known as the "colligative properties" of water, adding solutes (like salt) to water raises the boiling point and lowers the freezing point of water. As to "why" that happens it's a bit more complicated but basically pure solvents (like water) behave differently than when they have solutes added, liquids basically become more stable (chemical potential is lowered) when solutes are present, making them harder to change to other states (i.e. gas or solid)

It’s definitely going on everywhere for sure. 

I still don’t know why they need to farm so much karma before selling to the bot farms. Not sure why they don’t get what they need to post in target sub(s) and then sell.

There is big business in running a botnet on social media and you need lots of legitimate looking accounts to do it. On Reddit, that means karma.

It's propoganda and advertising bots farming karma to bypass new account restrictions so they can spam bullshit in subs that restrict new accounts

Citation needed.  most cases?  I think you watch too much TV.  most cases do not go to trial.  The person pleads guilty, but for death penalty cases, you cannot plead guilty.  You need a trial.  I think if you take 10 random cases currently on death row, you will find that all 10 are very clear-cut.  Also, most of them will die in jail after getting decades of free food, housing, and healthcare because anti-death penalty advocates would rather spend taxpayer money to watch someone rot in prison.

True, but that only helps with files that are physically close to you, you'll still need copies for different regions. 

I also imagine that for really popular videos that get millions of views minutes after being uploaded, even having the video cached in ram on a single server won't be enough to meet the bandwidth requirements.

YouTube algorithm needs to know I was only searching for missionary positions not THE missionary position.

That's exactly what I was thinking, Ska for a band name, Jimmy
Buffett for a song name.

New way to toss a salad

The thing that makes the most sense to me is maybe not advertising but influence farms..  The Conservative sub for example has basically been proven to be two dudes posting from a ton of different accounts.  Not picking on them (I actually am, who am I kidding), but I suppose its like that in other subs as well.

I agree but the question was syh does salt melt ice on roads. And that is due to engines melting ice and creating more water to dissolve salt. We're both right, just different contexts

It's the carrot. No, really, and it's amazing.

The symbols started as something that (mostly Japanese) cellular providers created for their users. As Unicode was being developed, they petitioned to get the emoji in because it'd be really convenient to be able to continue to support their fun symbols for their users without having to do some kind of fancy escape-coding. Unicode was small and it wasn't a huge lift, so it was in.

Here's where that became one of the most important decisions the Unicode Consortium made.

*Nobody cares about most of Unicode*. For any given software vendor, they want to cover their customers, not the whole planet. So they don't *really* want to be arsed to bump from supporting Unicode version 16 to version 17 just to support the Tolong Siki script used by the Kurukh people of northeast India.

... *but users care a lot about emoji*.

Every new version, the Unicode Consortium sneaks a few new emoji in. And if you aren't supporting the whole version, you aren't supporting the emoji either. So it's a forcing function to keep the software developers and vendors on the train.

The Kurukh people will have their language implemented in the international standard because iPhone users want to talk about how :orca: want to destroy 🚢, and I think that's beautiful.

Yes, you’ll be swept away, smashed into things, knocked unconscious and drown. Presuming the impact doesn’t do the job first.

But it works anywhere, not just on roads

Imagine you want to hire a Mazda engineer to work in your garage.

You get four applicants. None have ever held a spanner before. One once worked in a pub for a few weeks, the rest have no work history.

You don't hire anyone.

There is both a job vacancy and 4 unemployed people.

A few reasons. Different copies for different areas of the world. If the video you want to watch is stored across the planet it will take longer to load and could stutter.

Yes. 

Additionally, more copies means more people can watch it simultaneously. If a million people are all trying to access the same video and there's only one copy then nobody will actually be able to load the file.

Uh, no, that’s not how it works. An unlimited (ignoring physics etc) number of people can watch the same file at the same time.

Strictly speaking, it's a large temperature gradient of equatorial waters in the Pacific - where water in the west (Asia) is significantly warmer than the east (Americas), compared to the average year.

To sell the accounts to advertisers

If you feel any better I was in tacloban last year and some people who survived typhoon haiyan were cracking jokes (that don't translate the humour into English well but whatever) like "aw yeah you know we used to swim in the bay because it's really nice! but these days you don't know! Maybe you'll be swimming and next thing you know someone down there's grabbing your ankle!" Followed by a round of raucous laughter by everyone who was actually from tacloban in the van.

and don’t forget the emojis 😄

Bringing fish and chips back to Italy for the win!

You know how water heats until it gets to boiling and then stays that temperature while it turns into steam? The same thing happens with ice turning into water. Ice can be colder than the melting point, but it warms up to the melting point and then stays that temperature while it undergoes the phase change into water. So by lowering the freezing/melting point using salt, you can both make ice stay at a colder temperature (when making ice cream), or prevent water from freezing (salting the pavement).

The NCR won't go quietly, the Legion can count on that.

Those are both colligative properties of solutions.

Sorry if I'm being nit picky but it doesn't. It dissolves into the small amount of water on the surface of the ice. It needs water to be present. The reason it works on roads is due to engines .elting the ice and creating more water than what is just there on the surface (and creates the holes you mentioned).

Well they were very useful for drawing dungeon maps before we'd invented games with proper graphics, I can tell you that much. Probably also some boring uses like "spreadsheets" and "doing your job".

Cameron Todd Willingham.  

The state KNEW that evidence used to convict him was questionable at best, and still went through with the execution.

They haven't done real journalism in over a decade.

Lemme guess, a shit ton of money?

I don’t know if it’s still a thing, but once upon a time you used to be able to sell an account that had high karma. 

High karma accounts can get their content in front of more people and/or appear like a legitimate user when they are in fact a bad actor pushing propaganda or advertising.

As a Chem Professor I’d like to clarify here: 

Water makes bonds between the molecules of H2O using ‘Hydrogen bonding’ which is the attraction of the charge of the oxygen on one molecule to the charge of the hydrogen on another. This forms a network of molecules in solution. Think of it like a net. Melting is the process of breaking down that network a bit. Boiling is breaking it completely.

Sodium and chloride ions also have charge and can disrupt these hydrogen bonds as the oxygen may now favour attracting the sodium instead. This means the type of networks change and the thermal energy required to break the networks is different. Not higher or lower. Just different because different networks are formed with the salt ions. So melting happens at lower temperatures while boiling needs more energy. 

Hope this helps

What's going on isn't so much that it's making the *ice* colder as it is making the *liquid water* that surrounds the container colder without being able to freeze. That way, you pull heat out of the ice cream more rapidly, causing it to freeze with more air in it than you would get otherwise (if it freezes at all).

This is the same reason the salt and ice challenge has the effect it has: lowering the temperature of the water enables it to pull heat out of your body more rapidly, leading to frostbite-like injuries.

Thank you! I wasn’t being cynical, I love learning stuff like this. I never knew wh began as hw. And it makes me curious why the felt like the H was necessary in either case, because it seems like most wh- words could be pronounced the same with or without the H, unless the H was specifically pronounced at the beginning of the word like hwat. Super interesting thanks for the links

Is that actually a reason to do it at birth though

because it’s 10 million terabytes lol. not 1 million.

Not exactly... the universe moves to the state where given energy converts to maximum possible entropy ("all energy will be used to max out mess").

Water and ions mixed apart is a high entropy state - that is more "entropy efficient" than organized Ice crystal.

*\[Side note: a lower freezing point and higher boiling point are not opposites of each other\]*

Freezing: Salt interrupts the formation of ice crystals. You can think of ice crystals as blocks that grab onto to each other as the temperature drops. Salt molecules keep the ice crystals from stacking for little while until the temperature drops even more and the water molecules are moving more slowly so the interruption from the salt doesn't get in the way.

Boiling: Have you ever tried boiling pure salt? Takes a lot of heat; it doesn't want to melt or boil. Water does. Dissolving something that doesn't want to boil (salt) in something that does (water) means the salt holds the water back and the temperature to reach boiling goes up. The salt never actually boils, of course: it gets left behind when the water finally breaks free and evaporates.

*\[Another side note: an actual chemist can explain what's going on at the molecular level\]*

Salts break down to charged bits. Water doesn't break down the same way but it has charges too-- think how a magnet has a north and south end. In liquid water the charges orient around the salt's charged bits. This attraction makes it harder for liquid to settle into a solid shape because the salty bits get in the way. It also makes it harder for liquid water to evaporate because it really doesn't want to leave those salty bits behind. That means salty water freezes at lower temperatures, evaporates more slowly, and freezes at higher temperatures.

Or further, have you ever seen that a recipe explains that you crack the egg, add the insides of the egg to the bowl, and throw out the shell?

It might take historians time to work out exactly how we "added 1 egg" and ended up with something light and fluffy instead of full of sharp eggshell pieces.

And the only reason I even add this, is a very old YT video of a barely functional alcoholic who posted "cooking videos". It was clear he had never tried to do actual cooking before, and he interpreted "egg whites" as meaning "the shell" since it was white.

Larry Ellison and his son actually believe that the public wants to see the slop that they're selling. They see the long decline in the popularity of broadcast news as the result of "polarization" where "right wing voices" aren't adequately represented in mainstream news so people aren't watching. The reality is that the information environment is just changing as time goes on. People don't consume media the same way they did before.

Their plan is to take a news apparatus that was trusted for presenting factual stories and replace it with one that presents narratives that serve the political purposes of the billionaires that own the company. 

They chose to put a truly unqualified person in charge of CBS News (Bari Weiss) and as was expected, she has no idea what she's doing because her entire career has consisted of finding ways to paint herself as the victim (she tried to get herself fired from the New York Times for having controversial opinions, but they didn't fire her so she quit). No one involved with the leadership of CBS news at this point has any respect for the people who ran it previously so they underestimated how hard it was.

Basically, they're trying to convert a respected news source into a propaganda machine, but they're really really bad at it because the leaders are all completely divorced from reality.

And sharks, waves with teeth……possibly

seizure caesar? I love that pizza

Trusting ChatGPT to give you unbiased information on a politically charged topic with a prominently biased prompt is even more ridiculous than expecting Redditors to be able to identify biases in themselves.

Seriously, put “how unbiased is the 60 minutes tv show” into ChatGPT and tell me you trust what comes out.

It was an ego fight between Scott Pelley and Bari Weiss and CBS management.

News has changed. More people get their news from streamers and podcasts than they do from actual news teams. Bari Weiss was brought in as editor-in-chief to overhaul CBS News. They had been suffering years of rating declines and they needed to make some major changes.

Scott Pelley did not like this at all. He believed she was destroying a news institution and injecting politics into stories where it wasn't necessary. Bari Weiss claimed the reason for the changes was to save the show since the viewership had been dropping consistently and they were losing out to independent media.

Scott Pelley apparently had a vert tense confrontation with Weiss and CBS management in a meeting. He told Weiss that she was killing 60 Minutes and he told Nick Bilton (executive producer) that he wasn't qualified enough for his job.

So they pulled him. You can't insult your employers and you can't get in the way of necessary changes which viewership is dropping. He basically forced their hand (IMO)

it's a phenomenon of the mid and eastern pacific ocean, not the western pacific

FWIW, the land looking like its sinking is totally sensible.  In fact, you’ve very much discovered the same principle that Einstein expressed when he defined, mathematically, that there’s no such thing as a totally fixed frame of reference in the universe. To wit, it’s all relative to the perspective of the viewer (thus, the Theory of Relativity).

It USED to make a little sense. Karma was like online street cred and upvotes/likes/karma/whatever other metric used in forums were still fairly novel. This was 10-15 years ago

So people would repost old content and plagiarize ideas to get more karma/likes. And people would call them out on it because communities were small enough to notice and the internet culture of the time was one that cared

Now I think it’s more about being able to bypass karma based restrictions and to make it harder to distinguish bots from real users. Reddit is a global platform and bot legions are well documented as being used to direct public sentiment over various matters.

I’m sure people still like karma because “number go up = dopamine”, but theres real utility in bot farms

Broadcast is a sinking ship, no one is revamping it, they ended 60mins because they broadcast investigative journalism to the whole country, including the retired voter. Truth=Bad

bots don't read the comments

People sell high karma accounts to advertising bot farms.

Part of it is that some subs require your account to be a certain age and have a certain amount of karma to post, so that’s one of the reasons they farm.

There were other reasons, but I can’t remember, potentially posts from higher karma accounts are shown more often? Or maybe having loads of karma means they can rack up loads of downvotes before they lose to ability to post in some of those restricted subs I mentioned.

An MBS is a financial instrument. I wouldn't call it a guarantee, there's nothing that's being guaranteed. It's just selling debt in packages essentially.

Like lets say that you lend 100 dollars to your friend Tom and promise him to pay him back 1 dollar a day until you've paid a total of 120 dollars. He can then go to his friend Bill and sell that debt to him for 105 dollars if Bill thinks that you made a bum deal, or for 95 dollars if Tom made a bum deal. Than you'd pay your one dollar a day to Bill instead of Tom. Or a month later when you've already paid 30 dollars back he'll maybe sell it for lets say 80 dollars because that's what the debt is worth at that point. Debt is just a financial instrument that can be bought and sold.

An MBS is just the financial instrument that consists in selling a large collection of debts by different people instead the one specific debt of one person.

If you're interested in the history of English

I have a print edition of the OED, if that answers this question. :D Granted its an older edition, but still.

you can still self host all your videos and pictures

Salt in the quantities applied to roads does not really drop its freezing point by more than a few degrees. What salt really does, specifically the salt for roads contains a di-ionic species (usually Mg 2+ or Ca2+) and the dissolution of these salts into water is exothermic  - heat is released.

That heat then melts the water, allows more salt to dissolve, and you start melting the ice and snow long enough and to good enough affect that it can then be mechanically removed by plows, or maybe it just drains off the roadway.

Salt dissolves and forms ions in water. These ions like to hang out with water molecules (and vice versa). This means they get in the way of water molecules bonding to other water molecules (freezing) and it also means it's harder for water molecules to get away (boilling)

This is only the most visible sign.  Recently, people at the top with ethics ( belief in showing all facets of a story, investigating a story without bias, doing actual research, employing people of various backgrounds), and censors with ethics ( yes - TV stations have censors ) - were replaced by people with NO ethics.  Its an administration thing.  People don't realize it, but the most popular broadcast stations are owned by Sinclair.  ( CBS since 2020 ) Sinclair is politically conservative and nearly a monopoly.  They don't want their stations doing investigative journalism or showing multiple viewpoints.  This is a consequence of greed and having NO regulation of "satellite" news/entertainment stations, and limited regulation of "cable" news/entertainment.  Conservative voices dominate satellite and cable.  Now they will control broadcast media as well.  Remember what happened to PBS and Sesame Street?  Its part of the same movement.

The method rips apart the ice phase until temperature reaches new equilibrium temperature. 

Chemical reactions sometimes go endothermic (soaking energy, going to less efficientmode ) because it brings disorder (entropy). The total chemical potential combines the 2...

Redundancy is very true, but theres also a piece that having copies on servers in different geographic locations can improve performance for users closer to those geographic locations. If everyone is trying to watch the latest cute cat video from servers in the UK viewers in China, the States, Australia, etc etc are going to notice more issues than those in the UK. If you send copies to servers in the States, China, Australia etc in anticipation of it being watched in those places you can significantly improve performance.
Also, of course, if everyone is trying to watch a video off one server that server may simply not be up to the task of handling all that load.

I mean for the purpose of grabbing them from the bag, Bread can be pulled one slice at a time for toast or whatever, but more often than not. bagels and muffins you grab both.

Own stuff like what? You already own the photo, video, text, etc. You just uploaded a copy to a shared database.

The joke is that Japan does everything right but their economy doesn't grow, while Argentina can do everything wrong and somehow still have a thriving economy.

Argentina used to have one of the largest economies in the world but decades of systematic mismanagement and government corruption have left them in dire circumstances.

To the point where they've now elected a rather extreme free market libertarian because why not? We've tried everything else.

I don't think the comment saying it adds drag is accurate. It actually reduces the weight of the car because the wings don't work properly. That's not the same as drag though, which would be just wind resistance. F1 cars around corners also don't give two fucks about drag because their engines are so powerful. A straight at very high speeds is a different story.

It's less about fault tolerance and more about load balancing though. 

Sure, they don't want the big name videos lost to failures. That's lost ad revenue and big name creators might go elsewhere if YouTube loses their videos.

But the more people are accessing specific videos, the bigger the load impact on hardware. Especially with transcoding. Their servers would blow away anything we run at home. But their servers see much more demand than our home PC. If they can spread that demand across the world, the impact of high demand is reduced.

Fascism. CBS was bought by pedo fascists  60 minutes is a premier weekly news magazine that does deeper more critical sizes into certain things. There Pedo Fascists control the 3 branches of government and are taking over the media to sane wash the Pedo Fascism. If all the mainstream realizable news treats pedo fascism as normal and paints liberal progressives as evil for demanding things like human rights, citizen rights, freedom, then a lot of people will subconsciously think Pedo fascism is normal and liberty and justice for all is an abberation.

"Currently we produce \~10^(21) digital bits of information annually on Earth. Assuming 20% annual growth rate, we estimate that after \~350 years from now, the number of bits produced will exceed the number of all atoms on Earth."

The Information Catastrophe, Melvin M. Vopson

Once you see racks full of pallets upon pallets that each contain hundreds of 16TB hard drives, it's not hard to comprehend how they retain it all.

So, you may know that ice is a crystal where water molecules are locked together; liquid water allows the water molecules to bounce around freely; and water vapor is when the water molecules have so much energy that they really aren't sticking to each other very much.

When salt dissolves, it literally breaks its molecules apart. Table salt is NaCl, sodium and chlorine stuck together; when it dissolves, it turns into Na+ and Cl- atoms.

Those atoms get in between water molecules in ice, literally wedging them apart like tiny crowbars, and encouraging the liquid, non-locked-together phase.

But those Na+ and Cl- atoms really *don't* want to become vapor. They're just too heavy and too eager to stick together, or to stick to bits of water. So when you try to boil water that has a bunch of extra atoms in it, it's a little bit harder because those atoms are grabbing onto the water molecules and keeping them from flying away.

Because it sucks and has for years, there are podcasts with better ratings and they are trying to change with the market rather than rid the sinking ship into the sunset of financial ruin and bankruptcy.

It wouldn’t work for a website, but I’ve seen nearline storage systems that tier video off to tape. When someone needs a file, it loads up in a few minutes.

I dont see a fuck there

This has been answered by some very good YouTube videos. But it boils down to this:

1. YouTube is an industry leader in video compression. So, yes, they do have a "magical" way of compressing videos way, way down. It looks like 1 minute of 4K on YouTube is 0.1-0.4 GB.

2. Relatively few videos are uploaded in 4K, the vast majority are 1080p or lower. That cuts data down by about a quarter, so the lower resolutions become vanishingly irrelevant for YouTube.

3. You underestimate how cheap server storage is. About a year ago, a TB consumer drive was $100 dollars, which also seems to be a reasonable cost for Google's servers. Changing the number from 4PB to a much more realistic 100TB, That's a few tens of thousands per day, which is really not much for a company that large. Like, a few million per year for new storage.

That makes me want to take a spin on YouTube of commercial collections and see what the world’s been up to. Unless the brain rot will make me despair for humanity.

With hidden history, (probable) location in India, along with shameless copy/pasting into a different sub as well:

And because the salt ions have mass, they keep the water molecules from moving away, but because they’re a different shape than the water molecules, they also prevent the water from crystallizing?

I find your take very interesting.

You are not wrong that there is A LOT of redundancy. But it also preserves history in a way that's never been done before.

For example, there was a period where spice shakers came in sets of 3. Salt, pepper, and ???

It seemed that the knowledge of what would commonly be stored in the 3rd shakers was so "common knowledge" at the time that few sources ever indicated what it was. 

But that common knowledge was lost over generations. So it took some further research to try to narrow it down: this article points to the mystery spice as probably mustard. 

Similarly, eggs. I cannot find the source right now, but think about how recipes just specify "eggs". 2 eggs, 3 eggs, whatever. Have you ever seen a recipe specify that you should use "chicken eggs" specifically? There's an "implied knowledge" in our culture that when a recipe says "egg", we think chicken egg.

But, what if 50,000 years from now, that knowledge was lost? Historians would have to look at our civilization and the way we raised livestock to determine that it is most likely a chicken egg. But if they were to rely SOLELY on the recipe, they could see "egg" and have no idea whether we meant chicken, duck, turkey, fish eggs, eggplant, or something else entirely? Maybe an animal or plant that had since gone extinct.

Anyway, there are historical examples of losing "implied knowledge" and it is really interesting to see how different "common knowledge" is in different times and places.

Put "has 60 Minutes been guilty of false programming or deceptive editing?" into Chat GPT, and you will have your answer. 60 Minutes has been lying for years.

And I guess if someone wants more beer than TP they have more of the content locally?

For all *practical* purposes, adding salt to water doesn't make it take longer to boil. You'd have to add a lotttt of salt for it to do that.

Now as to why salt could (if you added enough) make water take longer to boil, it's bc the ions in the sodium and chloride make it harder for the water to evaporate. When you add salt to ice, those same ions get attracted to water molecules and basically don't let the water bond with each other, aka lowers the freezing point temp.

While ot is more subjective then it should be, dog shows don't fit the rest of your examples.  All animals who are shown and judged have a book called the "Standard of Perfection" it will say, for example, the perfect beagle will be this tall. It will be this long, it's markings are this shape, etc. Each of these has a point value and each dog is judged against its standard and the one that is closest wins. In theory, they aren't playing off against the judges.

I’m adding to OPs question, pardon me, but so why is the method of adding salt to ice when making ice cream used? I always attributed it to salt making ice colder somehow (also the salt and ice challenge…. You may be lucky enough not to be familiar with it). If salt is making H2O more thermodynamically preferable, why would salt be added to ice to make it colder (unless my interpretation of the ice actually becoming colder is wrong)?

Salt melts ice. The salt will bond with the water molecules on the edge of the structure, which weakens their bond with the next layer, and so on. That's why it melts holes in ice.

Obviously not. 

There were several automatic charges for procedures that didn't actually happen.

To add on top of everything: datacenter (where all that is stored) use standard racks dimensions for their hardware.

At worst, assuming they are using ~24Tb drive 3.5" (so the typical big fatty on, good for storage), using the front loaded server with a very limited number of disks, a rack can contains about 224 drives. That is 5 376Tb (5.3Pb) for the size of big fiberglass shower.

I'm aware they are server that can host like 2.5x more drives. I don't know if they are used in those companies.

Multiply that on a damn extra big building, over multiple levels, on multiple locations.

Fair enough. Water molecules are polar, they attract to charges just like iron attracts to magnets (conducting the charge outwards make a lower 3nergy state).

Water see charged particles (salt ions) - water likes. Water hangs around.

Wasn't there a cloud storage provider whose data center buent and they had little to no copies (in France iirc)?

They could let us own stuff again

Crazy the shit that happens, I’ve seen whole tree trunks twisted around itself, like how you would twist a wash cloth to wring it out. The trunk itself didn’t move location, but the whole trunk just twisted in place, so it was completely destroyed. Kind of wild the tree didn’t just get ripped up, but also terrifying the power the wind could still do to just its trunk alone!

Maybe that explains a lot of it. Peeps be greedy.

the ole seizure salad

Fractal surface = infinite butter hack

Freezing means the molecules form rigid structures, and salt in the mixture breaks up those structures, preventing freezing or causing it to melt. Boiling means escaping bonds with other molecules while becoming a gas, and bonds with salt require more energy to break than the bonds between water molecules.

Together, this means dissolving salt in water stabilizes its liquid form.

Water with salt requires more energy to be boiled, not less

The President of the United States is a toddler who has weaponized the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to threaten the licenses and/or mergers of television companies that have broadcast TV channels (ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX) if they don't actively suck his dick.

it's like billionaires. compulsion. never have enough

Freezing isn't the opposite of boiling. There separate state changes both of which are affected by the addition of salt.

Salt in water increases the boiling point enough to make it take longer to hit the right temperature. For ice the salt ions get in the way of water molecules making it harder for things to come together in structure to freeze. The salt is getting in the way of both processes. When we use salt on the ice it's doing the same thing, getting in the way of those molecules. Breaks things down and makes it harder to freeze again and again

Now I think the question is “why?”  As in, what’s the mechanism that makes liquid the preferred state when you add salt to water?

Salt doesn't just "melt the ice" on roads. Each grain melts a very small hole through the layer of ice and then disolves and melts a puddle underneath the ice, making it much easier for the next plow truck to break up and lift the ice away.

As others have said, they really do have that much data storage and keep growing it. 

Also, I’m sure they do as other data storage companies do and they create checksums for every video. If two people upload the same video (same checksum), they delete one of them and point both entries to the remaining copy. I’d bet a bunch of that 720,000 hours of video that gets uploaded are the same videos uploaded by multiple people. This can reduce a chunk of storage needs. 

On the other hand data storage these days is getting so cheap that companies may not be bothering to deduplicate anymore.

If the car is FWD (as most cars are), they hook it up from the front and let the rear wheels roll. 

If the car is RWD, they hook it up from the back and let the front wheels roll. 

If the car is is AWD/4WD, they jack it up and attach little wheels called dollies to both the front and the back. Same for if it's a FWD/RWD and the owner has the parking brake engaged. 

Rarely, in certain circumstances, they will opt for a flatbed instead. This is the safest tow method, since the vehicle never makes contact with the ground, and is preferred when the vehicle is larger, heavier (dollies have weight limits), more expensive (dollies can transmit more force when driving over bumps and cracks), or towing long distance (dollies are wheels too, and can be damaged or deflate).

English muffins are toasted though so you need them separated.

No that's about it. Hard drives fail all the time. Even expensive industrial data center drives that mostly sit inert are going to degrade over time. 

Or you know, computer hardware is generally flammable.

Salt doesn't melt ice.

Car engines melt ice and turn it into water.
The water dissolves the salt.
The salt decrease the freezing point of the water making it less likely to refreeze.

New leadership is trying to please the orange man so they allow some merger.

Servers cache files to RAM though, so as long as the file servers have decent RAM it'll be caching the most popular videos so they never actually hit the storage.

Salt water has a lower melting point, but higher boiling point than pure water.

Salt makes the liquid phase of water more preferred thermodynamicly.
Melting earlier, evaporating less, boiling later.

Not all is 4K 😉

The simple truth is that Google on average adds much more than 1 Petabyte a day to the datacenters.

Also there is cold storage (data not so often needed) and hot storage (data often needed) the cold storage is much cheaper but also a bit slower which does not matter for stuff that does not get called for that often. At least 90% of YouTube movies will spend their life on cold storage silly because do not watch them that often.

And yes the scale of these things is enormous, so enormous that it is even hard to grasp how large the scale is if you're not familiar with the hardware. Amazon S3 services handles hundreds of Exabytes over many trillions of objects and did some time ago over 200 Million requests per second globally. Their total storage capacity runs in the Zettabytes (1 Zetta is a Million Petabytes) So yeah adding a bunch of Peta's a day on average is normal business. .

They can add more storage as needed.

Sorting it is more work than storing it

Frequently access content gets copied to regional content delivery servers. So stuff that's "trending" or "viral" is on a bunch of different servers to allow .multiple people to stream simultaneously.

Whereas a really old video that may even have some minor buffering issues, because your the only person watching it in years, may only have one copy.

Even some local business and universities have their own data centers.. sure they're typically part of another building but it's still a datacenter with the same cooling/water/power concerns just on a much much smaller scale

There are a few variables.

If the Car is Front Wheel Drive or Rear Wheel Drive, and the Emergency Brake is NOT applied, the tow truck can simply pick the vehicle up by the wheels that are connected to the motor because the opposite set of wheels are basically free spinning.           
So your typical Honda Civic is Front Wheel Drive.          
Tow Driver picks up the front wheels.        
The rear wheels, again assuming no eBrake, will just spin freely and not damage the car when it's towed away.           
If the Car is parked in a parking stall head-in, the tow driver will basically just drag the car, with the locked front wheels, out of the space far enough that they can then drop the car and re-position to pick it up by the front.             
And then of course you can just reverse all of the above with a Rear Wheel drive like a Mustang, etc.

If the Car is All Wheel Drive or has the Emergency Brake applied, then as someone else mentioned, the tow driver will just use "Wheel Dollies".          
These are basically little cradles that hold the wheel and tire of the towed car a few inches off the ground and have their own free spinning wheels so the tow truck can still tow it.               
OR            
Flat Bed Tow Truck, they have winches on the back and will just drag the car up onto the bed (which tilts down so the back edge touches the ground), and then once the vehicle is fully loaded, will just tilt the bed back to flat and drive off.        
Some of these will have a traditional tow bar on the back so they can haul 1 up on the bed and a 2nd car behind the truck.

Held under. That's how a lot of river drownings in my old town happened. heavy winter storms would leave a lot of tree debris in the river. Fast moving. Even with a life jacket you could get pushed and stuck under a log. Especially in the spring with higher and faster moving water.

Major assumptions that are not accurate, not all video uploaded is uncompressed and not all video that is uploaded is 4k at a constant bitrate.

You tube compresses upload to save space.

Mostly it is encoded to vp9, which has very good compression and streaming. H 264 at 4k(60fps) and 10 minutes would be 3.75 GB, at 1080p(60fps) it is 900mb, at 720p it becomes 300mb. Vp9 is half that file size  where as av1 is closer to 2/3. 

Compression generally works by encoding whole frames (aka key frames) roughly once per second and then using an equation to store the difference between frames. The total number of key frames stored per second of footage changes overall file size via variable bitrate without degrading the overall quality. 

There are compression artifacts that occur but generally your brain skips over them if they are slight.

Yeh, I dont know..  Are they selling the accounts to bot farms or something?

Apart from what others have said, older videos are downgraded in quality overtime thus reducing filesize

Thats the difficult part. 

Yes, AI and its ilk are popping up data centers left and right

But Facebook, YouTube, Snapchat, etc. All use data centers too. When you wanna see mom's old post from 2014, its a data center

Basically how cloud storage works - worth taking a look given all the data centers being built against our will

Once you have enough Karma to post and comment, what’s the point?

In the dirty air, you have less downforce from your wings. This means your tires have less grip. When your tires have less grip, you can't take a corner as fast. That means you need to go slower through the corner than the car ahead.

*edit* To go a bit farther, if you are trying to take corners at higher speed without as much downforce, you're going to create more wear on your tires, which ultimately results in tire degradation at a rate higher than the person you're trying to pass. This can tip the scales back in their favour later.

Ah, so what are we measuring against? (I do have to cede that I did think you were arguing about the gold standard as in commodity backed currencies and that's a whole other thing that I have been sensitized to by the internet. Hahaha.)

Capitalism isn't a political structure. It's an economic structure. And it's fundamentally flawed. 

But invoking capitalism as if it's about profit or competition is inherently wrong. 

The idea of profit and growth are inherence to virtually all economic systems. It's just a question of who gets to make the decisions. 

Collective ownership is not strictly speaking required for socialism. 

When you take the socialist idea of the work or controlling the means of production and decide to make the government the proxy for the worker you just given up control of the means of production to the government and that's communism but it's not socialism anymore really. 

Once the worker seeds control of the means of production to anyone be it the capitalist or the government the socialism basically goes away. 

This is of course endlessly argued. 

But you are here repeatedly invoking me the MBA as if it is some sort of talisman or barrier point. 

The barrier point is the moment that the worker can be subjugated out of his fair share of the value he provides to the system and the business. 

So we are largely agreeing up to a point but I think that you have established some sort of psychological threshold where capitalism better and MBA and corporatism is some sort of bright line division. 

But if you've ever worked had a sole proprietorship and had a bad guy owner be xthat kind of boss" you can quickly understand that that kind of terrible can go straight down to the street level. 

Many of the Western countries do a much better job of protecting the worker and so it artificially raises the line where terrible actually has an impact on the individual worker, and the US sure does need more of that. 

But the fundamental model of capitalism, where somebody with a bunch of money "risks" the horrible page of finding themselves to be a regular worker if the business were to fail pretty much rests squarely on the premise but being a regular worker is somehow supposed to be a terrible fate by design of the people who control the economy. 

Economic fairness at the worker level is the anathema to capitalism. It is a fundamental flaw. A first sin if you will. Capitalism always requires a disproportionate taking from the workers otherwise there would be no way to for the capitalist to gain that disproportionate control and wealth and station that comes with a successful capitalist. 

And part of the problem is of course is the fact that capitalist has two definitions that people use interchangeably. One kind of capitalist is the person who has enough money that they can invest without participation. And the other kind of capitalist is the person who's convinced that the system of investment is fair despite the fact that it treats them unfairly on a systematic basis.

10 exabytes=10000 petabytes

10000/4.3=2325

2325/365=6.36 years

How much of the 10 exabytes have they already used?

6 years doesnt seem like much of a buffer for a company like youtube

Could not disagree more. I agree there is a lot of dumb stuff uploaded but there are also lots of various repair or diagnostic tutorials with only hundreds of views but are invaluable and have saved myself and others lots of time and thousands of dollars. How to unclog a toilet, sure purge some of those, but the one video on how to fix a particular flaw of an old obscure clothes dryer, or vacuum cleaner, or literally anything else is so valuable and I’m so grateful that YouTube hosts those things.

No downsides! It makes masturbation less pleasant and more troublesome!

Additionally, over time, it seems they stop providing the higher res videos once they reach a certain metric. Don't ask me what it is, as I have no idea. But there's a load of old videos on Youtube that are only available in low quality, despite having higher quality when they were uploaded.

I assume once a video has existed for X amount of time, and isn't getting X number of views, they compress it into a lower quality format and ditch the high quality that takes up far more room.

Why say lot word when few word do trick

In my area (rain shadow in central Washington) my understanding is that snow tends to hit us from artic weather patterns from the north, so the mountains aren't really doing much to protect us from that since they're blocking moisture from the east and west. But also we don't get much snow, it's just when we do we tend to get a bunch at once

You are assuming that everyone uploads in 4k. They don't. Vast majority is 1080p.  

The other resolutions (of a 4k video) are about 60% the size (combined) of the original 4k video.  

1 petabyte is about 0.02% of their current storage. They operate in the exabyte range.

As for the "buy a server every day", no, they buy tons of servers. 1 PB of storage takes about 1 rack slot, and they have hundreds of these in a single data center. They employ people who are constantly adding (and replacing) more storage. They buy at a scale that seems unimaginable to a normal person.

Not the hellhole it used to be = wonderful place

You ate a lot of paint chips growing up huh

just like West Coast Video

Wow, Reddit is such a strange place..  I guess Karma farming is a thing here.  I still dont understand why though.

1. Redundancy; if the underlying disk fails you don't want the video to be gone forever.

2. Delivery; CDNs are special systems that replicate data globally so that they can be quickly delivered to customers. If you were in asia and were trying to watch a 4k video in North America, not only would you be moving a lot of data, you would be moving it a long distance, which would make it a shit experience for customers. Instead, we would replicate the video to various places across the world. When someone requests to view a video, we take a look at where the request is coming from, and then route the request to the closest location, so that they are retrieving data as locally as possible.

That's actually way less than I would have thought

tbh youtube videos look so dogshot nowadays they probably compress a 10gb video to a couple MB

Nope.  It’s rotating hard drives.

Tape is too slow for anything other than disaster backups.

Storage management software has gotten really good at things like deduplication. So if they put all the videos in one place, and there's like 100 of them that are almost identical, algorithms will only store one copy of that data pattern. But then when it's retrieved it'll come out fully reinflated. This would be separated from the actual compression algorithms.

Most of those earthquakes weren't from the extraction per se. They were from the disposal of fracking fluid down other disposal wells

Lol thats what you took from my comment. Alrighty then…

They have... Data centers... Full of servers and storage, for that purpose....

All this bitching and whining about data-center construction ignores what they actually do...

In addition to everything else, don't forget the fact that Partner ISPs also operate GGC (google global cache) environments, which store local copies of popular content to repositories that are local to the users.

GGC is usually provided to ISPs at *no charge*. This reduces traffic to googles on prem storage while reducing latency to end users. The ISPs just provide Rack and Power.

So what happens if you need a video that's old/unpopular/"useless"? Sounds like, in your world, you'd be SOL

To split up the traffic across multiple data centers.

I think it’s actually the opposite?  Steel was us removing enough carbon that it was no longer cast iron.  I don’t think we had that much pure pure upon

A few reasons. Different copies for different areas of the world. If the video you want to watch is stored across the planet it will take longer to load and could stutter. 

Additionally, more copies means more people can watch it simultaneously. If a million people are all trying to access the same video and there's only one copy then nobody will actually be able to load the file.

Video stored in Dubai. You live in America. 
You watch video, video now stored in Dubai and America. 

Also 4k, 2k, 1080p, 720p, 360p

There's an answer in the thread you copied your question word for word from.

YouTube is owned by Google, which is at zettabyte scale and growing. 

Why do you think adding 4-5 petabytes per day is unrealistic? They spend almost $200B/year building out data centers.

"Edge". In layman's terms, store the content close to where the user wants it. Like the corner shop near you having toilet roll or beer, whatever you might want suddenly.

You should see the size of their data center in Clarksville, TN. It's humongous

Anything less than 3 copies is 0 copies

data center damage, hard drive damage, corrosion, or if infrastructure fails connecting one copy another one is available elsewhere. i would assume anyway, i’m a bartender not a programmer.

So, storage is actually pretty compact in most modern forms, which is why you can get things like multiple terabytes on something as small as a thumb drive or M2 stick. Even using standard HDD's, they're not very large for how much they store. Now imagine just one rack stuffed to the brim with them, it would hold quite a lot. Extrapolate that across multiple, multiple racks, and even in a modest sized data center you can reach ridiculous levels of storage space. 

The problem of course is costs, but when you're buying on that scale you're obviously not paying MSRP

Google secretly deletes your photos/videos of fireworks and uses that space.

A shit ton of compression saving videos on a shit ton of servers sitting in a shit ton of data centers. If you want to ask how they do all that shit, the answer is Money

In case a server goes down

There is no way that tape would be used for storage of videos.  It would take hours to restore one video.  

Its really just highly redundant storage across multiple sites across multiple countries.

Its not hard to install 500 x 50TB hard drives every day, per site.

The important thing is that the views are very unevenly distributed across those hundreds of thousands of hours. Most of the videos get only a handful of views (if any) and it is only a tiny fraction of videos that create large viewer demand.

That means redundant storage all over the globe isn't necessary. Most videos can be stored in a one location only. If the creator and his mom want to view it and that one location happens to be on the other side of the world, they have to wait a second longer. Who cares? Only once the videos turns out to be popular enough that that one additional second begins to adds up, is the video duplicated and copies stored on all continents for faster access.

And of course that "one location" is a different one for each video. So you don't have to scale a single data center by petabytes each day; you scale a hundred data centers all over the world by 10s of terabytes each day. That's much more doable.

Second: Yes, they buy new storage every day. It is necessary for the maintenance alone. Drives can break. If you have millions of drives, some will *always* be broken at any given point in time. So you have to keep replacing drives all the time and therefore have a continuous stream of new drives coming in anyway. They just order more than they need for maintenance to factor in the growth.

I wish YT would delete old or unpopular or useless videos. 
How many unclog toilet videos do we need to watch before finding the right video?

If you're interested in the history of English, his channel is really great. It's a mix of some deep dives and some quicker videos as well. 
The video I linked is focused on the printing press impact on spelling, which also includes things like why there's an h in ghost (also attributed to Flemish printing press operators), as well as the loss of the characters thorn, wynn, and eth. Thorn and Eth are still used in Icelandic, but I don't think any modern language still uses the wynn, which is what English used to use before we used W. The wynn looks fairly similar to a P, which is thought to be why English currency issued under William the Conquerer looks like it says "Pillem". 
Source for Pillem coin claim:  
Most pennies of Kings William I and II show a front-facing bust of the king on the obverse (which was a departure from the Anglo-Saxon kings, who mostly used a sideways-facing bust), surrounded by a legend, usually PILLEMUS REX, PILLEM REX ANGLOR, PILLEM REX AN, PILLELM REX, PILLEM R (King William, or William King of the English — The P may have been a late usage of the letter wynn, a P-shaped rune which had the sound value of a "w").

Redundancy, in case the original data ceases to work or is corrupted.

Edit: Thank you all for the spell check

Imagine how lo g it can take to accumulate carbon into plants,trees, wood, coal, fossil fuels, etc. Then think how extremely quickly all of that carbon is released into the atmosphere when those things are burned.  Burning too much, too quickly creates tremendous imbalances, which contribute o the environmental/climate problems we all face today.

Right, I get all that. But does dirty air add drag or reduce drag? Because the original comment says it introduces extra drag. While everyone responding to me is saying it reduces drag.

Why have any copies at all?

webm compression, and constantly finding new ways to compress videos with minimal change to quality

So that 4.3 petabytes is 0.2% of the 10 exabytes?

Industrial steel production with a specific amount of carbon was quite hard to make because the amount of carbon that remains in the iron varies. There was alos not a good analysis to get the exact composition of the molten metal.

The first way to make inexpensive steel in an industrial process was the Bessemer process, patented in 1856.  Oxygen was blown through the molten iron to remove all carbon as carbon dioxide.   You can now measure and add back a specific amount of carbon to get an exact and consistent amount of carbon in the steel.

Tape storage I believe.  You can get massive amounts of data onto reels of tape.  You just can't retrieve it as fast.  So they keep the new stuff on faster drives and only bring out the tapes when the algorithm demands it.

Edit: but I have no specific knowledge of how Google actually does it.

The fundamental truth of chemistry (and one of the things that makes chemistry so cool, IMO) is that the same atoms can be rearranged in different ways, and take on radically different qualities.

The carbon (and oxygen) atoms that are floating around us as invisible gas can be taken apart and reconstituted into a liquid, or as a solid. They can become part of a soft bit of cotton, a solid piece of oak, or a crystal of diamonds, it's all in how they're arranged.

Plants have an elaborate and complex system for extracting CO2 from the air, tearing the molecules apart, and recombining them with other molecules (including hydrogen from water and nitrogen from the soil), and can make a huge variety of organic molecules, which can then be structured into larger solids. 

The sheer variety of things that can be built from a relatively small number of elements is kind of incredible, but that's the nature of the world we live in.

I also never argued against socialism? 

Socialism isn't the opposite of capitalism. It's a word that has had many definitions, and so it's often a bit of a moving goalpost to use in a discussion, but I have no issue with the notion. 

Neither socialism (by any definition) nor capitalism exist in a vacuum, or purely. Capitalism isn't a political structure, it's purely a financial system. Many aspects of socialism can overlap with capitalism - collective ownership (via the state) of key industries with profits invested based on a democratic strategy (think Norway's oil funds), while taxing private profits suitably so that the rich fund social causes like healthcare and such. While still allowing private companies of many sizes to do many things. 

And again, you're saying "we've had economic collapse in the United States every 6.8 years" and "there's a reason America invades socialist countries." Yeah, *I'm not American*. We probably agree that America sucks. American capitalism is the worst capitalism. No contest, bro/ette. 

And what's the gold standard got to do with anything? *edit: did you just latch onto the keywords? I meant gold standard as in "the thing to be measured against.*

YouTube avoids purging old content by combining Google’s massive global data center footprint with advanced data-compression algorithms and tiered storage management. Because exabytes of videos require immense bandwidth, they intelligently move infrequently watched videos to slower, cheaper storage tiers and use widespread caching.

Grocery store bagels are not sliced all the way wtf are you talking about? I literally live in Canada. Montreal has the same fucking bagel brands in Walmart and Loblaws as Nova Scotia. They are not sliced all the way. 

And no one is debating that real bagel shops have better bagels. No shit. Of course they don’t come cut by defaults. Because they’re fresh. Don’t be a snob.

I'd say it's probably usually the drowning that kills them, but getting trapped under debris, bones broken by impacts, or knocked out by head trauma certainly doesn't help people avoid drowning.

Imagine that you want to paint on a piece of paper. If it's the wrong kind of paper, your paint isn't going to work very well. Watercolors are fine if you're painting on a plain white sheet of printer paper. If you're painting on cardboard, that might be better. But if you're painting on toilet paper, the paint might destroy the paper. 

A plush stuffed animal is kind of the same thing. Some fabrics can handle being painted on, like a t-shirt. But some fabric can't handle paint and might get destroyed or damaged.

If you're not sure, I would recommend not trying to paint it.

They really just have that many hard drives. Datacenters aren't just for AI hype.

And they have fewer copies of less popular videos

I don't know exactly how they do it and I am sure its complex given the scale... but to boil it down. 

Different kinds of storage exists that has pros and cons depending on use case. Storing a video that will be viewed once a month isn't the same need as a video being watched a million times an hour. 

As videos reduce in viewing it can be transferred to less expensive storage types. They also own everything themselves and storage can be surprisingly inexpensive if all you need is lots of it.

The complicated process of “photosynthesis” is almost magical. How do you take a massless photon and use it to supply energy to assemble molecules?

And it’s not just one tree and animal. There is A LOT of biomass.

With no knowledge on the subject, I'd say...

 Data center big, like bigly big. Data center store lots of data. Data center pop up everywhere. Store lots of data

Youtube has access to roughly 10 exabytes (1 million terabytes) worth of storage so yes, they store all those videos as anyone else would.

They can drag a car with all 4 wheels locked right onto a flat bed, no problem.  

The only time I saw a tow driver bother with dollies was when a car was missing a wheel and he didn’t want to scratch his flatbed.

Your phrasing is hard to decipher, but I think you’re asking about applying paint to a soft toy animal. The answer will depend on what kind of fabric and filler is used on the toy and, of course, what kind of paint you’re using. 

Some spray paints, for example, can dissolve cheap synthetic fabrics.

Both the yield sign and the volvo lines were correct. One punchline was about situps and the other was about jogging, though I can't remember which went with which

Commenting so I can find and check these links later, but honestly good job providing something behind the claim.

I knew some of the people killed in the Wimberley flash flood of 2015. Everyone was asleep. It took a house off its foundations and sent it down the river. Only one person in that house survived.

Although I have to give CDS which AIG backed probably caused the major cause.

There's a huge difference between massively inflated salaries, and a pittance.

You can absolutely define a circle by three (non-colinear) points.

With only two points, there are an infinite number of points equidistant from each, so you can't place the center of the circle. But with three non-colinear points, there is exactly *one* point equidistant from all three; that's the center of the circle, and the distance to any of the original points is the radius.

Hello No-Poet3745,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

DUDE! I will bookmark this one lol. I looked for it  for a couple hours one night to no avail. This video looks kind of like how they portray tsunamis in the movies.

Im curious, what's special about Argentina?

It's funny you dismiss it instead of address it. 

You know great economic philosophers came up with things like socialism and Marxism to address the failures of communism. But if you don't actually study the writing you'll come to all sorts of conclusions like the ones you've described above. 

A single proprietorship is an inherently socialist organization because the worker who is the proprietor has complete ownership over that means of production. 

And they put in a few workers and the workers have direct feedback and they feel like they've got some control. 

But as soon as certain trend lines happen you start getting the "I'm the owner and you're just a worker mentality even in these small businesses."

That entire owning class mentality is the fundamental flaw of capitalism. This is mine and you'll do what I say is a toxic mentality that destroys anyone who cannot afford to themselves provide the capital to start a business. 

So the justification of the owner getting more than a fair share that represents their effort is a fundamental toxin. 

And I understand that you don't understand any of this, because you keep on marching out MBA as if it's some sort of magical delineation that separates some capitalists from others. 

But every co-op, and employee-owned business is a social

Socialism does not forbid profit. Socialism does not have a cultural order. It's merely the proposition that the people who do the work should have a say about what is done with the work product. And it should be proportional to the amount of value they bring in as a worker. 

It's a very subtle thing that you don't seem to understand that you have bought into the myth of capitalism because the capitalists have told you it's the best system. 

Capitalism was so great and socialism was so terrible we wouldn't have had to spend billions of dollars sending the CIA into every socialist country to destabilize them. Socialist countries would have destabilized themselves and we could have just stood back and watched. 

The owning class. The robber barons. The concentration of wealth. These are fundamental problems with capitalism as capitalism. 

But socialist economies with profit motives and competition are completely valid structures that don't have these problems. 

But you've been taught to worship at the altar of capitalism and there's going to be no shift in you until you decide to read more from other people's perspectives starting with the idea that they might be right and then comparing the best research on all sides and matching it to the economic realities. 

The reason we've had an economic collapse every 6.8 years on average over the last hundred years in the United States is because systems with feedback loops in them develop residence. 

The "ablian sandpile model" it's an accessible version of sensitive dependence.

It's got nothing to do with the gold standard, the gold standard was abandoned because France particularly but other countries in general were getting a bunch of American dollars and then showing up and demanding the gold and we were running out of gold and that meant we we're running out of currency and that meant that our economy was going to stall. This form of arbitrage was basically depleting the currency to the point where we literally didn't have enough dollar bills to move around to keep the economy running.

You're trotting out these flags like you know what they mean and why they changed.

Er, right, I meant just ‘date to’ and my thumbs kinda auto inserted carbon date in front. I think they figured out the oldest ones through geological dating of the surrounding matrix? Thanks for clarifying!

Which is in *exactly one plane.* Tomato tomahto.

Carbon dating is limited to around 60,000 years.  Life on earth was quite similar back then to today.   

Radiometric dating is limited to around 10 half-lives; only  0.098% of the original amount will remain at that point. It is hard to measure the amount when you have less of it. C-14 has a half-life of 5730 years so 60,000 years is about the practical limit.  

It looks like the youngest natural diamods are about 60-90 million years old, which is more than 60,000 years, so carbon dating cant be used.  Other radiometric dating methods exist that can be used on other mineral inclusions in diamonds.

This is the correct answer.  As someone who worked on Wall Street and with Bernanke and Geithner and Jamie Diamond and bailed out the USA, this is accurate.

It's also the reason for the moves that matters. It's usually a symptom or a sign of other things. 

If Paintlandia tightens up environmental regulations on chemical manufacturing, this will lead to a higher price on those, possibly dropping exports because another country is cheaper. So fewer people need to buy Paintlandia Dollars, which means the currency value drops. 

The news isn't PAINTLANDIA DOLLAR IS USELESS IT"S COLLAPSING!!!!!!!!!!!!!, the news may well be "famous Paintlandia lake reclaims its place as an inexpensive tourism destination thanks to a lack of paint fumes."

Instructions unclear, ate a tree and now I breathe diamonds

"I'll shove *you* in a nook"

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Straightforward or factual queries are not allowed on ELI5. ELI5 is meant for simplifying complex concepts (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

You're vehemently opposing my contention that borrowers bear some of the responsibility of the financial crisis.  Which means you don't think they are responsible at all.

And you didn't explain anything.  You proposed a hypothetical example which failed to take into account a lot of underlying causes.

Finally, I have no idea why you think I'm a Trump supporter, or that you'd even bring politics into this.  For that I can only conclude you're a moron.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Information about a specific or narrow issue (personal problems, private experiences, legal questions, medical inquiries, how-to, relationship advice, etc.) are not allowed on ELI5 (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

A better question is - why do they slice them at all? Do they not trust us with a bread knife?

The Carbon cycle is one of the important systems that connect the biosphere  climate, cycle and human development. Check it out.

Also the many people on the roofs of building flowing away like they are islands while they hope the structure stays together. It's a force unlike any other.

Formulas for stuff like this are just loose estimations of human experience given quantitative weights. They look "objective" but they make assumptions about what a person is wearing or what a person's normal temperature regulation is (which involves gender and environment and culture). Even how much hair a person has can affect the feels like.  

Just because someone puts their assumptions in a math formula doesn't make it objective.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Very short answers, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

once you go XLOOKUP, you don't go back!

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* ELI5 requires that you *search the ELI5 subreddit for your topic before posting*.

Please search before submitting.

This question has already been asked on ELI5 multiple times.

If you need help searching, please refer to the Wiki.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

Any you just float? Some of us are more buoyant.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Hypotheticals questions, or questions about hypothetical situations, are not allowed on ELI5 (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

I once went into a tornado area the next morning and saw a pick axe driven deeply into a telephone pole about 20 feet off the ground. Dangerous things fly around.

I’m not adamant about that, and haven’t made that claim. 

And you totally missed my point but it’s impossible to explain subtle distinctions to Trump supporters. And before you ask, it’s because you’re stupid.

Trees build their mass from this same carbon. Not from the soil or water.

The direct exchange rate doesn't really mean much. It's a reflection of a cumulative effect since over the entire period of time since the currency has been established, thus older currencies tend to be traded lower. The rate of change on the other hand is a powerful indicator. 

Imagine if the US just made a financial reform started using the cent as the main currency, it's still backed by the same economy, there is still the same amount of 'money', it's just 1/100 of the value and there is 100x times more of it. The dollar note will be renamed as the 100 penny note, and 1 penny will still have more value in copper. 

Or take the eurozone for example, many weak economies joined the eurozone and switched their currencies to the euro. But it didn't make their currencies stronger or weaker overnight. Sure the lack of money exchange, joined market etc. might have long term benefits for trade. But their economy is doing just the same the day it's established.

There's a joke, I think by Ron White, about people who go out and brave hurricanes, because they can handle the strong winds.

He says, "It isn't *THAT* the wind is blowing. It's *HWHAT* the wind is blowing. If you get hit with a Volvo, it doesn't really matter how many sit-ups you did that morning"

The same applies with a tsunami, you might survive the water, but if you get hit with a yacht, that'll probably do you in. Or buried in debris, or pinned against a building...

(yep, Ron White.. looked it up to get the wording right)

We're taking Gamestop to the moon!

High speed rails are best for high density population areas. Studies show that HRS does best for distances over 100 miles but less then 500 miles. In the US, the average distance between major urban centers are between 1,000 miles and 1,250 miles; as such there are very limited areas where high speed rails would make sense in the US due to our low population density. Basically only the Northeast, the Texas triangle, and LA to the Bay Area. A Midwest route (connecting Minneapolis-Chicago-Detroit) and a PNW route (connecting Portland-Seattle-Vancouver) might also be viable. Ultimately, it has to compete with a 100 year old highway network infrastructure and a tradition of roadtrips that the US is built on.

This was asked and answered a month ago.

I found it! Wow that is terrifying.

And so? There are cases where the person was SEEN in commission of the crime by living humans, caught on film. How often did the various caught on camera/dumb criminal shows did show exactly that, some guy goes into a convenience store, holds it up fully on camera.  I was discussing a metaphorical - as in literally "what if there is incontrovertable evidence of a heinous \[why does that word never look like I am spelling it correctly?\] crime"

For the printing press part there were a few videos from the channel Rob Words on YouTube about the impact of the printing press on English Spelling. This is one of them: 

Etymology of what:  
From Middle English what, from Old English hwæt (“what”), from Proto-West Germanic *hwat, from Proto-Germanic *hwat (“what”), from Proto-Indo-European *kʷód (“what”), neuter form of *kʷós (“who”).

I'm late to the party, but I had a question.  Many people (like myself) are upset that no one who was responsible for the 2008 recession was punished.  But what would those people be punished with?  It sounds like they should be charged with fraud.  Is that correct?

But they're not "harbor" in nature either.   So they really shouldn't be called tsunamis.

Right... I'm reading this at lunch... guess I know what I'm trying when I get back to work.

I lived in the middle of America at the time but happened to be awake, so I watched the 2011 tsunami hit Japan live via helicopter footage. It was surreal how it just kept going and going. The ocean is terrifyingly powerful.

To expand on the other comment that is also correct: it may seem paradoxical to want drag on corners, but you do. The reason is it's not actually drag, but downforce. It's the same principle airplanes use, except the car is"flying" into the ground with its specially designed wings. Doing this increases the friction on the tires and allows the car to take the corner at a far faster speed, even though it's more inefficient (the engine has to power through this extra friction, but an F1 engine can do this easily).

So dirty air is bad because the special wings don't get the proper airflow over them and they can't fly the car into the ground, thus reducing the possible speed of the corner.

Sure? Again, that's the kind of short-term MBA-led capitalism that I was talking about. You think I was holding American capitalism up as the gold standard? 

Yeah, giant, publicly traded megacorporations that are incentivized by quarterly results are a problem. You're not contradicting me. 

But again, my point is that a small clothing brand that's privately owned (not publicly traded) is going to live by values that disappear when it's absorbed into a larger entity, because *gestures at your comment.*

Bait used to be believable

Not much because these are rare geological events 

If your concern is a battery fire, you’re already going to have fire events even without electric cars when a tsunami is literally collapsing buildings

It absolutely can, but in general, native plants are adapted to the typical rain and soil conditions that are likely to happen in an area.  If you tried growing more dryland plants in a swamp or rain forest, you'd likely run into issues quickly.

We generally don't use one as the center point in geometry. They should all be on the perimeter, but yes you are correct that it would be different if you used one as the center point.

This is your friendly reminder that almost all the mass of a tree was originally CO2. Trees are magic factories that turn air into wood.

Not sure where you see desperation anywhere in my comments.

I allocate blame where its due.  

Not sure why you're so adamant people who live beyond their means are victims.

\> it's a required thing for option trading

Depends on what kind of option, which side of the contract that you're on, and what other assets you have. I don't see why you'd need margin to buy an option or to sell one that you already own. Also, if you can back writing the option with existing assets -- cash-secured puts or covered calls -- that shouldn't require margin. On the other hand, unsecured puts or naked calls do require margin.

Your submission has been removed because questions about why the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) makes you file your own tax paperwork when they already know how much you should owe are commonly asked and almost always break Rule 2. Rule 2 prohibits questions asking about business / group / individual motivations, and questions of a narrow and/or straightforward nature. 

Questions about why an entity operates a certain way are almost always breaking Rule 2. 

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Your submission has been removed because questions about why the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) makes you file your own tax paperwork when they already know how much you should owe are commonly asked and almost always break Rule 2. Rule 2 prohibits questions asking about business / group / individual motivations, and questions of a narrow and/or straightforward nature. 

Questions about why an entity operates a certain way are almost always breaking Rule 2. 

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

To put this into a cycle:

CO2 from the air is absorbed by plants as part of photosynthesis.  

Photosynthesis creates very basic "sugars" which are then used by the plant to build. Now the Carbon is "sugar". 

Plants use the basic "sugar" to convert into more complex structures like cellulose which gives the plant its structure.  Wood is made up mostly of cellulose. Now the carbon is "wood." 

When the cellulose material from plants is knocked down and buried under ground for many years, the plant cellulose starts decomposing.  Because it is enclosed by layers of earth under massive pressure  the plant cellulose heats up which causes it to convert to coal.  

As you can see, each step of the process involves adding time and energy to the carbon based molecules so they convert into more complex molecules that hold more energy. 

Some coal under greater heat and pressure deep underground turned into pure carbon diamonds.  

 The carbon in steel typically comes from graphite which is also formed from heat and pressure.  Then we heat the coal up one more time to make it into coke which is an even more energy dense material made of carbon.   Then finally we can burn the coke because it is energy dense enough to burn hot enough to melt iron and other metals into liquid... then we can mix a small portion of the graphite into the liquid iron which creates steel.. 

and now we've come full circle with our carbon because now we're mixing the carbon atoms we got into liquid iron.  The carbon atoms create ferrite molecules inside the iron as it cools which makes the resulting iron alloy into steel which is much stronger and more durable (like how concrete has small rocks inside which make it stronger).  

Now we can make the steel into a shovel and plant some more trees!

A lot of people die being smashed into something (or vice-versa) before they drown.

That’s not what I meant. 

Waves to most people are the things they see at the beach.
They come, then recede immediately.

This just keeps coming and coming and climbing.

Anyway.  Have a good day.

Yes, but it will be a different circle if one of them is the center point.

Some diamonds carbon date to before life is known to have evolved, yes.

doesn't have to be at all. many soft serves are 10-14% milkfat, same as hard serve

You're completely misunderstanding what grammar is.  There is nothing grammatically incorrect about this person's question.  There is clearly some ambiguity in the intent and scope of the question.  Something I was not "calling out" in any way.  I, honestly, read the question as being what would happen if we eradicated the bacteria.  That is, got rid of it from this point going forward.  Others, apparently, read it as being "what if it never existed at all."

  
Just a simple misunderstanding.  No malintent in my response.  And yet, reddit seems to be in a bad mood this morning.

It's not a wall of water. It comes in quickly, but still gradually like the tide.

Yes it does. After it's finished coming and climbing it drags everything back again, with equal unstoppablility.

With some exceptions and not accounting for decay, all elements have been on earth pretty much since its creation (or at least since whatever large object hit it and added significant material).

Carbon would have been here since the earth formed, so could be turned into diamond if enough of it came together in the right place in the crust.

Oversimplified: chemistry.

Plant cells tear apart the CO2 and use it along with other elements to grow and maintain themselves. Wood is the body of a tree, it's a system of cells with very solid walls. Carbon's a big part of building up those walls.

Animals eat plants. Their bodies break down the plant cells into atoms that are formed into the things their body needs. Carbon is a big part of biological chemical processes. 

Animals and plants die. Some other animals eat them, sometimes they decay and get eaten by bacteria. All of that just transfers the carbon in their body to the life processes of something else.

Sometimes they get buried and over eons dirt piles up deeper and deeper until there's an immense amount of heat and pressure. That's how the carbon in their bodies ends up in coal or diamonds. 

Carbon steel isn't a natural thing. We make it. At industrial scale we melt very pure carbon we derive from coal along with iron and process it until we get what we want. At a smaller scale we put iron and charcoal in a blast furnace. 

But to get that carbon steel, some plant eons ago had to absorb some carbon from the CO2 in the air, use it to build cells, die, then get buried and worked on by geological forces for an unbelievable amount of time. 

Why is there so much? Think about it. For a long, long time, we did not have human lumberjacks. Humans have only existed for a tiny blip of the Earth's history. Plants got here 500 MILLION years earlier than we did. So for 500 MILLION years, plants were growing and dying without people to deforest areas. That is a long, long, long time for dead materials to accumulate. If we consider how long humans have existed, plants have been here more than 1600x as many years. It's a number so big it's unimaginable. 

So this is a case where if I say "tons of carbon were absorbed and sent underground through this process", it's a case where an annoying pedant should raise a finger and say, "Well, actually, "tons" isn't an amount large enough to express just how much carbon exists in the planet. We're going to need scientific notation."

Yes it was. That would be it alright. It’s a bitch to find lol.

It is basically like a wild river full of stuff flowing inland. The sea level is locally higher up for some minutes and so the sea flows into the land. Any combination of hitting something and drowning is possible.

It depends. You may be unluckily hit by something heavy like a log or a wrecked ship which tsunami brought to you and therefore die. Or you may be luckily hit by anything but then possibly be drown and may die.

"tidal wave" is an ambiguous term, as it also means sudden waves caused by the tide.

A tsunami is specifically a wave caused by a sudden ground displacement, and not the tide.

No, no...swearing in front of someone LIKE they were five years old. 😃

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* ELI5 requires that you *search the ELI5 subreddit for your topic before posting*.

Please search before submitting.

This question has already been asked on ELI5 multiple times.

If you need help searching, please refer to the Wiki.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

No., but thanks for explaining why you’re so desperate to cast the blame.

ANY 3 points will define a circle or arc. They can all be on the circumference and define both the diameter and the plane. 

2 points do not define the plane or the diameter because any size circle larger than the distance between the two points can be drawn and that circle can be drawn on any plane that intersects the line between the two points. 

3 points are required to define a circle.

Lots and lots of complicated biochemical pathways.

The photosynthesys cycle involves a lot of enzymes (The cel's machinery) to translate atmospheric CO2 into sugars, then a separate pathway to convert those sugars into celllose, lignine and hemicellulose, which is what compromises wood.

It's a giant cascade of chemical processes enabled by spefific enzymes.

The the tree dies, get's burried, and under pressure and millions of years turns to coal, diamond and oil.

Carbon is also one of the most versatile compounds. It can form 4 connections with other atoms, double and triple connections.

But the comment I’m responding to says dirty air causes more drag (last sentence). Why would drag help me in a straight?

Photosynthesis. 

The most important enzyme in the world (RuBISCO), with the help of a few friends, turns carbon dioxide into sugar.

Yes.   There was carbon in the Earth's core and mantle from the primordial formation of the planet, which could be formed into diamond under the right conditions.

I'm sure you're patiently waiting for the cops to arrest Trump for fraud. 

Wat?

you jumped the shark there, guy

It's not *that* the wind is blowing...

Spoken like someone who's never heard of Dodge v Ford or study, you know, the history of United States or Western economics in general.

Capitalism, the idea of centralized ownership of the means of production by the wealthy is inherently flawed those flaws have been amplified by court cases like Dodge V4 that require corporations to maximize short-term shareholder profit over things like corporate responsibility and long-term best interests of anybody who doesn't actually have stock directly in the company at hand.

A factor, sure.  A remotely significant one, most certainly no

Has something to do with the brains default mode to relive what has happened. Then you freak out. Stress hormones release and bam!!! Good morning, its 1:16am. Coffee anyone?

Was it possible to form diamonds before trees (or life) evolved?

You don't need grip on a straight

I wonder what happens when electric cars become more commonplace around these areas

The CO2 has less energy than the wood and those other forms. That's how if you burn them (back to CO2 etc) energy is released. In order to make "wood" or the rest of the plant material from carbon pulled from the air, you need energy to reverse that reaction.

When a tree does photosynthesis, it absorbs a bit of sunlight at a specific wavelength into a special pigment, e.g. chlorophyll. The energy absorbed from the sun is shuttled around to where it's used to split water, creating oxygen gas, hydrogen ions, and some leftover electrons. (The leftover electrons mean it's an oxygenation reaction)

These electrons are used to separate the carbon from carbon dioxide (in a reduction reaction), which is then used in a complex of chemical reactions of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon for building the various sugars, celluse, lignin, etc. that ultimately becomes the makeup of the tree.

Back when trees first evolved, there hadn't yet evolved the fungi etc that now cause wood to rot and break down. Stacks and stacks of trees (of they survived wildfires) eventually were buried and became fossilized (e.g. peat). The pressure from being buried causes heat to build up, and this high temperature slowly causes the non carbon material to be driven out in a series of stages called coalification. There are several different types of coal at each stage in the process, like lignite or anthracite. Each stage has a different material exiting, e.g. water (dehydration) or carbon dioxide (decarboxylation), which remove hydrogen and oxygen or carbon and oxygen. A more dangerous stage for mining etc is when carbon and hydrogen are driven out as methane (demethanation).

Ultimately this process results in graphite, which is made of of sheets of carbon atoms only bonded to other carbon in rings. If the pressure is high enough, the graphite is converted to diamonds

That reminds me of a storm that hit our rular town in the 80s, we took shelter in the living room and out of the blue things turn more bright inside the house.... Our kitchen roof was gone and landed on our neighbor's front door, like on the other side of the street! If that had landed on a person it would probably could kill someone.

Cheeky answer is that something else very similar to cyanobacteria would have evolved, and the rest would be pretty much the same

I'm assuming that the tsunami that they're referring to is the kind that you see after like A wall of water traveling at the speed of sound. Because that's really the only scenario where our tsunami would be anything other than what you described.

Was the tsunami cresting under/near a bridge or something? I vaguely remember seeing one like that, it was a lot more up close than the one I linked. Not sure how to find that video again!

You're willfully missing the point of the post to be a grammar Nazi

Is Reddit the new Google, now?

learn new tools that are easier instead of learn new tools to force an existing program to do thing it really shouldn't be doing.

You CAN make full working applications in excel using hyperlinks, pages, and other nonsense (like a rollercoaster sim  ).  You shouldnt.  lookups aand pivots are right on the edge of where you should stop using excel for this.

swearing in front of a **five year old**!?

Why?  Because I'm aware of the personal choices people made to get into these loans?  I worked in this business.  I'm not speculating.

So trees and other photosynthetic orgsnisams use sunlight to convert atmospheric c02 into sugars starches and structures. Then they get eaten by other life forms or die and fall down. They get buried. Over time that burial get compressed and heated and other chemical reactions occur. for each of the geological carbon sources you need different combinations of pressure heat and time. 

Now over time there will be geological exposure if some of those carbon sources. It sounds weird but oil coul occasionally bubble up out of the ground. Maybe occasionally catch fire. There was a massive area of volcanic activity for a few million years that increased global temperature by a few degrees over a million years. 

All of the is just part of the natural carbon cycle. 

What isnt part if the natural cycle is our mining if fossil carbon, burning and releasing it into the atmosphere. If we could close the loop to exclude fossil sources if carbon. we could reduce climate change.

The co2 you breathe out doesn't enter the body as O2, it enters as carbohydrates. The co2 is created by breaking apart carbs in things like the krebs cycle which turns CxH2xOx carbs into chunks of co2. The O2 you breathe in is ultimately converted to water at the base of the electron transport chain.

I can have both, thank you!

I had always through a tsunami was just a gigantic king wave until I saw footage of the Japan tsunami, and it's like you say. The tide just keeps coming in and coming in and coming in over the course of 15 minutes.

El Nino is just a name they give a naturally occuring weather pattern. It doesnt effect the weather. It is the weather. Its just thr name they give that pressure system/pattern.

Anyone downvoting me can go fuck right off!  It's a valid answer.  Absolutely nothing would happen to history.  I wasn't being an ass, but you all need more fucking Prozac in your morning coffee.

Thanks for linking those - I hadn't seen the second video before. That's both amazing and horrifying - multiple streets worth of buildings, just gone in a matter of seconds.

I think this article does a good job of explaining it all and how it relates to climate and ocean currents.  They've simplified it, added diagrams to help us visualize, etc.  

Bit more than ELI5, but still very readable, imo.

That‘s recency bias. 

There is literally zero evidence and more importantly zero need for Google/Apple/Amazon/younameit listening to your conversations as they already know enough metadata (demographics, social circle, location, etc) to advertise specifically to you.

Dirty air is always causing less drag, but on the straights downforce isn't as important so you can sit in it and get the benefits, but on a corner it reduces downforce so you have to slow down more than the car in front to not lose grip and spin out.

For once electronic handbrakes are winning.

And how many cases like that exist? Most cases are sentenced on way less evidence than that.

Yes. It's an alloy like brass, just not out of two metals, but of iron and carbon.

To be fair almost every iron humanity will have produced through history will have contained carbon. But not in the correct amount to be steel (it's both too much or too little carbon it gets brittle or soft)

You sound like those politicians that tell everyone that welfare is bad by pointing at, say, Octomom and telling everyone that welfare recipients are just having tons of kids on our dime 😂

Sounds like an SQL query just without SQL syntax

For Greece there was also the matter of debt. National debt is normally denoted in the nation's own currency, and devaluing your currency reduces the debt. It's dangerous to go too far with this because you could end up in a hyperinflationary death spiral, but a modest degree of devaluation is considered to be sensible monetary policy in that situation.

And the getpivotdata formula unlocks a ton of possible queries from the pivot table itself!

thia is an equation for the quality of a pizza.

quality=[ham slices]-[pepperoni slices]+[pineapple pieces]+cheese

according to you, this objectively shows that pizza with more pineapple is of higher quality.

anyone can just make up an equation at any time.  that doesn't make it any less subjective.

Not through metabolizing it

Yeah why are people not signing up for a life sentence in these wonderful places. Never work a day more in their life just playing games on their iPads all day long.

A 5 year old can barely say “pedantic jackass”

So, we combined it with carbon to make carbon steel?

Okay, then. You are the expert of repoing vehicles.

I'm just saying as a past repo man in the greater SF Bay Area, SF to Vacaville in the mid 1990s, that the cops never did anything besides saying "it's a civil matter". 

From us breaking into garages to a dude threatening to shoot us. That dude they held in the back of a cop car until we towed it away. We didn't call the cops on dudes who came out with guns or bats, but that guy swiped our keys. We needed those back. 

It sounds like you have a concept of police work that isn't grounded in reality. I'm sure you're patiently waiting for the cops to arrest Trump for fraud.

'Learn a whole new system to do a simple job rather than use existing tools in a system you already know' is certainly a take.

RuBisCo, baby! It’s an enzyme that grabs carbon dioxide it out of the air and bonds it to hydrogen and oxygen. This forms carbohydrate building blocks that then form cellulose, sugars, etc. this process is called carbon fixation. RuBisCo is the most abundant enzyme on earth, and lots of research is being done to make it more efficient, allowing plants to make more starches and sugars to feed people.

There would never have been any photosynthesis. Without oxygen, there would probably be no higher life simply because it's very difficult to get enough energy gor complez organisms otherwise. The only energy source would be chemistry, with the best sources likely getting used up eventually due to limited replenishment (unlike in the case of using Sun), so you'd have a planet with only primitive single-celled life and not a thriving one.

Even when it's just hitting the first beach, the wave is still full of all kinds of material and churned up stuff.  It's coming in with force, but not quite enough to kill you or cause blunt force trauma unless you are hit by that debris (which is very likely). 

You then get swept under and churned around and if by some miracle you aren't battered by debris or slammed against something, you will indeed drown.  It would feel like the most violent washing machine of all time.  

There are no movie style waves, though they're still technically plausible I believe.  It would just require a very very large impact.  Mega-tsunamis are still the same 'ripple' style on approach, but might look like a wall of water due to size.   If you are on a boat, you will still go up and over like any other tsunami.  You're still going to have a bad time and might not survive, but your chances are better than on land.

**Exceptional** rain does over water plants.

Generally, climate (and rainfall) are within the normal limits for an area, so the amount of rain, type of soil and many other **factors has selected for plants that can survive and thrive in those conditions**.

Dandelions grow on my lawn without help.

If I tried to grow an orchid there it would die.

What grows naturally is what can survive those conditions.

It's objective in a subjective way.  The multipliers that were selected is based on 170cm height, pants and short sleeve shirt, body temperature of 98.6, and moving at 1.4m/s.

So the formula that shits out "Feels like" is always going to give the same answer but it's for one particular person dressed a particular way.

Let's say youre on the beach and float up to the surface when it starts rising. Is it feasible you could just out-float the entire tsunami? if you were smart about not getting smacked into stuff?

I release much more of it in the solid state though!

Index coupled with match is an excellent alternative to move any direction in your array. Trying to pull the "4 corners" from your data for interpolation is easier with those nested functions.

My wife has succulents that don't get watered all that often but when its time for them to be watered she fills the kitchen sink half way and sets them in there pot and all for a while. I was so confused the first time I saw her do that haha

think of it this way, there are two companies that make butter, one makes cheap butter the other makes expensive butter, now the price of the butter will be different, even though the company making them could be running at a loss or a profit or be massive companies or tiny companies . you can buy company stock, or you can just buy the butter. the butter is much easier and quicker to buy. now if a lot of people are buying cheap butter (currency like the yen) it means that cheap butter is in high demand which makes that butter valuable. notice how the company and the butter are two different systems. you can absolutely buy company stock, (country bonds) but that has little sway over the butter. you buy a lot of cheap butter because you can sell it for more and make a profit. in other words currency is simply a product to make profit off of.

If it doesn't work because of back-compatibility issues, it also might be worth switching to INDEX-MATCH. That will avoid the counting column issue.

Absolutely nothing because history is a record of the past.  Removing anything from existence only affects the world from this point going forward.  History is unaffected.

pivot tables lets you group and compare a bunch of records

an example from a sales register might look like:  
Date, Customer, Salesperson, item, quantity, total price

  
one or more of those can be row headers,  column headers,  filters, and lastly the ones you want to do math(sum, average, min, etc)

  
if you make salesperson the row, item the column, and the body be the sum of prices. you can see that Steve sells more widgets than anyone but Kayla sells more overall.

|2025|Widgets|Things|Whatsits|
|:-|:-|:-|:-|
|Steve|10.3|3.2|5.1|
|Kayla|7.2|7.1|7.3|
|Pat|4.8|8.3|5.2|

You could use minimum or average instead of sum and notice that Pat gives crazy discounts and makes up in volume while Steve knows somebody that pays retail for Whatsits.

You can nest more entries into the headers, but it can get complicated to look at.  Then you'd want to switch to a pivot chart so those additional dimensions can be represented by color/patterns/dot sizes.

Yes I do believe that. I’m not bloodthirsty and I luckily live in a country that treat prisoners like people and not animals.

It's also how we lose weight - when you lose fat you (mostly) breathe it out as pounds and pounds of carbon attached to oxygen you breathed in.

lookups and pivot tables are excels way of telling you that you should be using a real programming language for this, not hacking it together in excel

It is a multiplier because air by itself is a great insulator.  Adding in water (humidity) makes it less great of an insulator.

how can the same oxygen that you and i breathe be also in water? and sugar?

how can water be delicious and liquid but also solid?

different substancees in different configurations, mixed with different elements create different things.

There are a couple of use cases where INDEX-MATCH is still valuable (although it would be INDEX-XMATCH now), but in the vast majority of cases it's easier to use XLOOKUP. One of the biggest benefits is the built-in error matching in XLOOKUP, so you can specify an error response instead of wrapping things in IFERROR.

I think the difference is a bit overblown -- it's nowhere near as big a difference as the leap between VLOOKUP and XLOOKUP -- but I'm a fairly recent XLOOKUP convert and I haven't really found any negatives.

INDEX-MATCH-MATCH for when you're looking for something in a 2D array is still pretty useful, I find.

the mixing. stir a bowl of mediocre ice cream and it gets good

Plenty of carbon to go around, there isn't enough land in the planet for trees to suck up all the carbon in the atmosphere. Most carbon on earth is underground, the atmosphere only contains a fraction.

If you cut them you just shove all the nooks into the crannies.

If trees get their carbon from CO₂ in the air, how can that same carbon end up forming huge amounts of solid material like wood, coal, diamonds, and the carbon in steel?

1. Photosynthesis

2. Photosynthesis -> heat/pressure/time

3. Photosynthesis->more heat/more pressure/more time

4. See 3 (for graphite); this material is then added during smelting.  You are aware that steel is not a naturally occurring product but rather an alloyed product, yes?

Yeah, I was in Japan in 2017 and it was close to 100 JPY = 1 USD which made conversions in my head easy.

I've been back a couple times in the past couple years and now 100 JPY = 0.62 USD. Makes for a pretty cheap trip.

Wow, it's absolutely wild in that first video watching the water flow completely reverse within 4 minutes and drag everything back the other way.

Water? Like from the toilet?

Go see the 2012 movie "The Impossible" it gives a rather good impression of what happens when stuck in a tsunami. Basically there are 3 options:

1: You drown

2: You get smacked to oblivion, and mangled in a way that will kill you before you drown.

3: You wash into a safe place where you can hold on to (tree, inside a building, in a corner out of the main stream etc..)

If they can get two of the wheels off the ground, they can get the car. Which is why I wanted to build a Tow-Guard device which is basically a series of hinged diamond plate panels that unfold and wrap all the way around the car and secure to the wheels with cable locks. You couldn't tow the car even if you had a forklift (unless they're okay to intentionally damage your property-intentional damage is different the incidental damage). Also it would keep your catalytic converter from being stolen because no one could get under the car.

I got caught outdoors in an EF4 tornado in 1999. When my friend and I emerged from where we were sheltered, the ground around us and as far as we could see was a pincushion of 2x4’s and 4x4’s.  During a tornado, your world exists inside of a blender.

What an amazing answer.

Shipbuilders caulked and sealed the gaps using natural fibers and pitch or tar. This allowed the wood to expand and contract without leaking. The joints were designed to fit tightly together. They used wood like oak that were less likely to take on a lot of moisture. The caulking was redone every 10 years or so.

Bilge pumps were used to dispel water from the ship.

It wouldn't surprise me. 

For anyone following this comment thread: We don't have a healthcare system in the USA. We have a healthcare services market. With an entity that stands between people and their healthcare providers that only serves to siphons away money - private health insurance.

At regular room temperature and pressure here on Earth: H2O is water. H2 (hydrogen) and O2 (oxygen) are gasses. If you mix H2 and O2 and burn it, it turns into water, which is a liquid. Then you can freeze it and it turns into a solid.

The atoms (carbon, hydrogen) are not "solid" "liquid" or "gas" atoms.  
  
The molecules "h2/hydrogen", "o2/oxygen", "water" can be all of those different forms when at different pressures, but changing the molecule around means changing when it turns into those different forms.

* Front wheel drive  - Lift front wheels or winch onto on flatbed.

* Rear wheel drive - Lift front wheels (because of steering) and set dolly under rear wheels. (or flatbed)

* AWD - Lift front, dolly rear . . . 

Generally the process of winching onto a flatbed is no harder on a vehicle than a sudden stop with the brakes.

Windchill and frostbite charts are based on bare skin.

I don't think you're understanding the concept so I'll ELI5 for you: imagine you were wrapped in 10 feet of clothing.  Do you think there's any amount of wind or temperature that is going to make you get frostbite?

So why is dirty air causing drag in the comment I’m responding to yet reducing drag in my example?

„Basic“ Chemistry. Think about NaCl or table salt. Sodium is a metal, chloride a toxic gas. Put them together and you get salt you need to survive.

Exactly, which is how they make oxygen.  CO2 - C = O2

If cakes in a bakery are made using flour, how can that flour be in donuts and pastries?

Because there's a lot of flour in the bakery which can be used to make a lot of things.

I used to think that was an old wives' tale until I worked a tornado cleanup effort for an F4 in Arkansas. Saw a 1/8in dowelrod stabbed through a metal yield sign.

The tree took the carbon it took in yesterday to grow, creating a little extra wood among other things like leaves and roots and maybe fruits or flowers depending on what sort of tree it is.

Some trees that lived millions of years ago got buried over by dirt.  The earth exerted its enormous pressure and heat on it, and some of that wood turned into coal and diamonds, depending on the location and the time it happened.  

Steel is a human invention, where wood or coal is processed a bit to turn it into charcoal or coke and then added to iron to make it stronger.

Whether its a tsunami or a tornado the quickly moving water//wind itself won't injure you on contact but if it smashes you into something that will easily be lethal.  

Theoretically if you never smash into anything you will drown but drowning takes time and most scenarios will have a lot of opportunities to smash into. I think its safe to say majority of tsunami victims outside die from that kind of psysical trauma, rest in peace.

When you see a popup on a website that tells you the site uses cookies, and you blindly click "accept" without thinking, what you are actually saying is that you give the site permission to gather all the information it can about you and share it with all their partners. Some of those partners are advertisers, most are data brokers. 

You ask how your data gets sold online? The answer is that you give it to them to sell.

Atoms are fungible - the same atoms of carbon that make up gaseous CO2 can be reformed into solids or liquids.

Damn, it was 110 yen to the usd when I went just before covid. That's a significant drop

I'm like 0.1% geek, tops.

Funnily enough, it was originally spelled hwat. Most English words that start with wh- used to start with hw-. The shift happened because the first printing presses to be brought to England were all operated by Flemish people (modern day Belgium). They decided that since English had so many sh-, ch-, and th- words that wh- would look better than hw-.

Like I said, I was asleep so not sure about the time. I’m not going to argue with ya. I was there. You can chose to believe me or not. It’s not letting me post pics. See ya later.

Could this be a factor:  The dirty air contains the exhaust of the car in front.  That means more CO2 and less O2.  So your combustion may not be as good as clean air.

This is why a Harrier jet blows the exhaust down (so that the plane can takeoff/land vertically), but they also insure that the air intake is nowhere near the exhaust.

It’s all carbon. But the vast number of CO2 is so massive that this amount of Carbon in solids is only a fraction of what the atmosphere can hold. That is why trees grow very slowly. The air you exhale actually comes from the foods you eat, as Carbon Dioxide is produced when food is converted to energy and energy is burned

philosophers call this "the hard problem"

I watched the discovery doc on this recently for the second time and wow… you can find them on YouTube - it’s so fascinating - everyone should watch it that lives on a coast

There's an insane amount of Carbon on/in the planet.  It is a building block for a lot of the things we interact with in life, and actually has a cycle much like the water cycle where carbon is absorbed and released and settles in various ways and 'frequently' changes forms

Wow that one is really great, and it’s not even the one I was talking about haha. Here you can see the wave actually impacting which is cool. The video I had seen was at a different location.  The guys were way closer than this, and you can see this huge growing wave approaching them rapidly. You could tell the coastline there was the mouth of a river-valley which is why I think the wave grew to such heights.

The biggest advantage to most people, beyond not having to count columns, is that it is no longer left to right lookup restricted anymore. It can look across bidirectionally for any rows or columns regardless of their placement. It’s structurally more similar to something like a SUMIF formula in that sense. So it becomes much more powerful and easier to teach people. There are other wide benefits you can Google.

A tsunami is " a great sea wave produced especially by submarine earth movement or volcanic eruption" Most tsunamis that hit especially in bays are very tiny and can't hurt anyone. The most recent tsunami to hit California was on July 30, 2025  
  
Crescent City recorded the highest swells in the continental United States, peaking around 3.6 to 4 feet.  
  
San Francisco saw waves of about 2.5 feet.  
  
Southern California generally experienced surges of 1 foot or less.

The same way you take materials made of carbon like Cheerios and pop-tarts and turn it into CO2 gas.  Except backwards.

Sounds like an SQL query just without SQL syntax.

A tsunami is " a great sea wave produced especially by submarine earth movement or volcanic eruption" Most tsunamis that hit especially in bays are very tiny and can't hurt anyone. The most recent tsunami to hit California was on July 30, 2025  
  
Crescent City recorded the highest swells in the continental United States, peaking around 3.6 to 4 feet.  
  
San Francisco saw waves of about 2.5 feet.  
  
Southern California generally experienced surges of 1 foot or less.

Same goes for tornadoes.

Yea, 150-200mph winds aren't good for human survival, but getting hit by a car that's being carried by those winds is going to 100% kill you. Not to mention some are capable of embedding straw into concrete.

A tsunami is " a great sea wave produced especially by submarine earth movement or volcanic eruption" Most tsunamis that hit especially in bays are very tiny and can't hurt anyone. The most recent tsunami to hit California was on July 30, 2025   
  
Crescent City recorded the highest swells in the continental United States, peaking around 3.6 to 4 feet.   
  
San Francisco saw waves of about 2.5 feet.   
  
Southern California generally experienced surges of 1 foot or less.

CO2 and H2O have carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen. Wood is made up of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, basically made out of sugars plus some other things. That wood dies and gets buried and exposed to lots of pressure which eventually forms coal and diamonds.

Don't we all friends, don't we all. 

€{(  o  )}3

Harris winds and delivers, Vaseline ball, grounded to short.

Managers that are too picky and won't hire working moms, disabled people, caregivers etc.

Cos right now it's forming huge amounts of gas. Tons and tons of it, in the atmosphere.

I'm sorry, but no. The earthquake happened at 7:59 AM local time, not the middle of the night. And the tsunami struck the nearby islands (including Nias) only 15-20 minutes after that.

Holy shit 5 comments at this point pointing out almost exactly what i already said. I think BonerTurds got his anwer now lads.

One of them correctly called it a pocket of low pressure though, not a vacuum. It's a difference of about 0.1% from the surrounding air pressure, which even by the loosest definition isn't anywhere close to being a vacuum. It's not (perceptibly) sucking you in, the bigger effect comes from the lower pressure your car has to fight against, and the turbulent air not allowing clean air to get in the way. 

There's other things going on with fluid viscosity, and the fact the car in front as "pre-accelerated" a pocket of air so you're not spending energy bringing static air up to speed to either get out of the way or follow along with your car.

Because the main ingredient in a lot of what you wrote here is carbon

So a pivot table It's kind of like a v-lookup, but it can provide you with a much wider variety of information and it can give it to you in a lot of different ways. You're just taking the data and making a table out of it. Depending on how you want that day to presented. 

So to use their example, let's say you had that same list of students and grades. You could use a pivot table to figure out exactly how many students got A's how many got B's How many got C's and so on and so forth. Now say you had multiple grades in that table for each student. Well, a pivot table could return each student's name and then tell you how many A's B's or C's they received. 

It doesn't only have to return you the amount of something either. You could also return you the value. You can also manipulate the value if you need it differently than what it's set up in the data you already have. 

Beauty of a pivot table is you can take any point of data that you have and as long as it interacts in some way with another it will return that value for you. You just have to figure out what you're looking for. 

To go further, let's say you had an Excel sheet that had the students names their grades, the subjects, the teacher and homerooms. You could use a pivot table to find any interaction in this. So you could take the teachers and figure out how many A, B, and C's each one's had. What students they had? What students in each homeroom. I recommend if you ever use it to put it in classic mode because then it'll let you drag and drop the titles of the columns and I find it easier to use that way.

The movie "The impossible" showed it pretty well.

El nino dumps way more rain and NorCal tends to get a lot of it. People saying 7 years are a bit off, we tend to get thw stacked auper storms ~11 years and also tends to follow the solar minimum lagging by a year or two. 

The last record breaking season that I rememberis 96 and 97. The amount of snow fall was insane. Ski resorts where having to dig trenches for the chairlifts due to the snow pack. It was truly epic

It’s also worth noting that like other forms of credit, margin trading usually has a % fee baked into the loan.

So to come out ahead not only does your investment need to make money, it needs to make *more* than what you will owe in fees. So you don’t just need to make like 5%, you need to make like 10%+ to come out ahead.

Huh TIL about XLOOKUP, had no idea they'd made a sequel to VLOOKUP

Depends on how much water they find in your lungs (assuming they bother to look after finding you, the 9000th body)

Lets try an analogy.

A baking recipe (weather forecast) says to use 1 1/2 teaspoons of salt (feels like temp). The recipe maker (weather scientists) derived the amount of salt to use based on the dishes weight and volume. Now you bake the dish but find it's to salty while your kid thinks it isn't salty enough. 

The amount of salt used was calculated to be an optimal amount for general usage but because of user preference the perceived saltiness could be to little to much or just right.

Lets try another analogy for the usefulness of standardization.

Lets say in an alternate universe were there is no agreed upon standard of measurement a King decides a bridge should be made between 2 adjoining towns with each town being responsible for the construction of their half of the bridge. The King's carpenters provide schematics to each town but because there's no standard unit to measure things by both towns measurement of a "foot" is different leading to the bridge not adjoining properly in the middle.

Weather scientists agreed that there will be one way to calculate the feels like temperature and because everyone uses it it can be understood no matter where the temperature is from or who is doing the calculation that it will be accurate to what has become standardized. Said another way if two people calculated the feels like temp in the same place at the same time they should get the same result. And if 2 places on earth were experiencing the exact same temperature, wind, humidity, ect at the same time the feels like temperature would calculate the exact same.

My understanding is the experience of a *typical* tsunami isn't really like "huge towering waves crash down on you", I've heard survivors describe (and you can find YT videos) it as "it was like a normal tide coming in except it didn't stop coming in, it kept coming and coming until the beach was fully flooded, then the city streets etc."

Now, I said typical tsunami, understanding it to be some earthquake off shore creates a tsunami wave a few hours away that then hits land and wrecks havoc.

There's "megatsunamis" that are less well documented, but are documented. These are generally still caused by earthquakes, but as an indirect cause.

The most famous and probably best documented example is the 1958 Lituya Bay megatsunami in Alaska. There was a large earthquake--13 miles away from Lituya Bay. It is estimated as being potentially as strong as 8.3 but seems most estimates put it at 7.8.

However, Lituya Bay wasn't hit directly by a tsunami from that epicenter--in fact Lituya Bay is almost a completely enclosed Bay--it's actually geographically a **fjord**, but you don't hear that term used quite as often for Alaskan fjords.

The structure of the fjord itself would have likely offered significant protection from waves originating out in the ocean. But something else happened--Lituya Bay is a fjord carved out with towering cliffs around it, this giant earthquake with an epicenter only 13 miles away shook these cliffs very violently. Some huge chunks of the cliffs broke apart and slid in a giant landslide into the bay itself. This huge impact of massive amounts of earth was like what you'd get if you dropped a giant cannonball into a small swimming pool--a **huge** wave erupted, upwards of **1700 feet** tall. 

Wikipedia has a rough illustration of how this worked: 

Believe it or not--a couple people who were on boats in the bay survived, while the wave created was insanely tall, it was relatively narrow and directional, the survivors were some distance from where it happened, one boat was in an inlet tucked away from the main path of the wave. Five people did get killed by the event though.

Remarkably one of the survivors was a man and his son on a small fishing boat, who were lifted by part of the wave (I don't believe by the main wave e.g. they weren't lifted 1700 feet), but were able to remain upright and regain control of the boat after it passed.

Don't forget that VLOOKUP also requires your data to be sorted, otherwise bad things happen

It can be both. 

Considering the amount of debris the wave could be carrying at that point (even before reaching the coast line, like sea bottom rocks, sand, any nearby boat, floating wood, whatever) plus the stuff that may be added at the very coast line just before reaching you, plus smashing you against the floor, the rocks, any building or heavy object nearby, etc.... you could be dead in seconds, before having the time to drown.

But on the other hand, you may not receive such an impact at all and simply drown. Where exactly you are and how big the tsunami is could make a difference.

Not quite equivalent (it's 160.04 yen to 1$) but close enough to get the point across.

I did but I got lots of AI slop too…

This. The only way a wave is going to kill you by impacting you is if it is a really big wave that happens to crash on you. But waves don't just form curls (and thereby crash) automatically - it's something that happens under the right circumstances, based on the speed of the wave and how shallow the seafloor is below it.

Basically, Tsunamis almost never curl - they just kind of swell. It oftentimes just sort of looks like the ocean is rising. It's drowning that kills people.

“Chitty Chitty Bang Bang was *way* different than this!”

Us oldies are used to vlookup, leave us to our old ways! 

Actually I use xlookup, I love a new easier way to do things, I used groupby the other day and got far too excited.

A way to think about kight be like this:

I'm a tall, big guy. My wife is tiny. There have been a few times where we need to navigate a very heavy crowd. I tell her, grab my belt and get behind me.

I do the hard work of pushing through the crowd (the car going through the air), my wife drafts behind me and is close enough that the crowd can't come together behind me and get in front of her (she's the second car driving in the "divided" ait). She does less "work" to cover the same distance than I do.

Possibly drowning but most likely being crushed. The biggest problem with a tsunami is that you get garbled around and slammed into whatever's behind you and whatever's behind that and whatever's behind that and it turns into this giant moving log jam that just grinds everything away. At least that's what it looks like in the live video I've seen.

what about a giant wall of water like in Interstellar?

Both, tsunamis can also throw people into the air and the person will die from the impact once he falls to the ground

Say that to Dorothy.

If you get hit with a Volvo... it doesn't really matter how many sit-ups you did that morning.

Run away when the water is pulling out. Get to a higher spot. Pick up anything that could float.

What in the name of all that is holy is a English bagel ?

XLOOKUP is several years old, but VLOOKUP has been around much longer.

I saw a video of the tsunami filmed from far away that looked like a 100ft breaking wave as well. It's the only one I've seen that looked like a "movie" tsunami.

I'll try to find the video again and link it here

Yes that's what I am saying. Hence the quotes. But there is a big difference between that stuff and the made in store.

that makes sense. thanks for your time for your reply.

Imagine you have 2 data tables.  

Both contain a column with the same information, lets call that column Phone Numbers

However the rest of the columns have different information.  

Table A also has name and address 
Table B also has Owns a car and Owns a dog

If you wanted "Owns a Dog" added to table A so you could have Phone number, Name, Address and Dog Ownership in the same table you could use Vlookup

Lookup this phone number from A in Table B, give me the value for this row under "Owns a Dog"

Even things that are "baked fresh" are typically low quality in mass production stores like that.

Shoot, I still use vlookups! I suppose I need to stop and implement xlookup.

Yo soy El Niño, for those of you that dont habla Español thats Spanish for...the Niño.

Are you not aware that that moving air and/or water removes energy from the body faster or something?

That's pretty fucking relevant, lol.

\^ That's a chart of wind chills, air temperatures, and time to frostbite. That's only two factors; air temperature and wind speed.

If you're trying to determine how long it is safe to be outside, the "feels like" temperature is a good indicator that sums it up and indicates the dangers of exposure to the current conditions and provides information on the amount of clothing required.

Have you actually been outside when it is cold vs cold and windy? It seems like maybe you haven't.

That's not true at all.  A repo person trespassing on a commercial lot is not a civil matter.

thank you, scrolling through the other answers here have been pretty frustrating to read. 

i think a better question to ask would be, why is there a different purchasing power index for countries/regions, and what actually drives it?

Ugha - straight, ugha go fast!
Ugha turn, ugha uuuuuuurgh, pain!

The alcohol making me tired, the weed making me tired, they’re both pulling me to bed away from the bar

Slip stream does exist, but is only good on straights and when close enough. F1 cars rely on the aero far more than any non-single seater open wheel racing. Big solid cars like nascar for example punch a much bigger block through the air and while they have aero, they are not designed in the same way at all with the same lecel of dependency on it

We get bagels from Saint Viateur or Fairmount. They’re made the same day. They’re are unsliced. In Canada, our grocery store bagels or sliced all the way but who the fuck wants to eat them…

Dirty air and a slipstream are essentially the same thing. The leading car punches a hole through the air that creates a pocket of negative pressure behind it, making it easier for the trailing car to go fast, due to less air resistance. This same effect is a bad thing in the corners, because F1 cars rely on the downforce generated by aero components in order to have more grip in the turns. Less air>less downforce>less grip>slower cornering speed.

The rock that contains the oil is the rock equivalent of a sponge, the oil filled the holes in the rock, but the structure of the rock is still there. Basically oil is formed at a very deep level and once it becomes liquid it can then start to rise through semi permeable rock (rock sponge) until it hits a layer of impermeable rock (oil proof rock). The oil then forms a lake in the rock under a dome of this new rock, until it is drilled out. The rock is still as solid as it ever was.

I learned Index/Match long ago and use if for no good reason. How does it compare with XLookup?

Well of course. They are either sliced completely or not sliced at all

The value of one unit of currency doesn't indicate how strong or weak it is. Imagine if one day everyone in the US just decided to put all prices in cents instead of dollars. Something that cost $3.00 before suddenly costs "300 cents" instead. This would change absolutely nothing economically.

This one I can actually help with! 

Behind the moving car is a pocket of air that is effectively moving with it in the car's shadow. When you follow close behind it you're in that aerodynamic shadow. Think about a rock in a stream. The space behind it is shielded from the water's flow. Same idea.

Not a geneticist or anything, but the environment and food will always dictate.  If both are plentiful, it allows for growth.  If either decline, we shrink because it's better for survival (less size = less resources needed).
Look at the difference in South Korean vs North Korean average physicality.  Right next to each other.  One has had diverse nutrition options, the other has not.

Because when you're close enough, then the air hasn't had time to come back together completely behind the first car, so the second doesn't have as much air to push out of the way.

Trespass and illegal in the mythical land where police are impartial. The cops will say, "yeah, we're not getting involved, this is a civil matter.

As they say in the Repo Man documentary, the life of a repoman is always intense. 

Also, plate o' shrimp.

Theres a slight vacuum a very short distance behind a car before the clean air gets sucked in and turns turbulent.  Inside that vacuum there's reduced drag because there's a bubble of low-pressure air moving with the car.

if you are driving close enough to that car in front of you, you will end  up in the vacuume behind the car in front. Vacuum = not much air resistance. You can build up that extra momentum to overtake from that low pressure zone.

My life is a series of lookups. If AI ever gets wind of it I'm cooked

As a follow up, why is this different in other sports where slipstreaming can make it easier for the person behind to keep up / overtake? 🤔

Impact. But not by the wave. It's more like a flash flood. The water just kinda starts overflowing then the next thing you know you are getting washed away and a house comes along and boulders you.

Brit so no, but my local supermarket was owned by them for many years. And did produce freshly made bread (source: I was a baker)

Are you referring to how store bakeries now get the factory crap and reheat it? That happened to most of our supermarkets in the last ~5yrs. I forget about that. Good point if so.

Not really so easy for consumers to tell now! And the supermarkets are crafty to package and label it as "freshly baked", which is true but deliberately misleading. I joke that the stuff feels like memory foam and probably doesn't taste much better.

From the videos I've seen of tsunamis I don't think being a strong swimmer is going to help. Those currents seem like they would just rip you wherever they went regardless. I'll admit I don't know what the lowest end of tsunami could look like though. It's probably only really strong ones that went viral that i have seen.

They're super easy to find just searching YouTube with the words 'Japan', 'tsunami' and '2011'.  Not for the meek of heart to watch.

I recommend Bay's refrigerated English Muffins.  They're sliced all the way through and very yummy.  We get both Original and Sourdough.

Then why does a slipstream help you on the straights?

Comedian Ron White has a bit about hurricanes "it's not *THAT* the wind is blowing, it's *WHAT* the wind is blowing.".

I cannot get my coworkers, even in the tech team, to stop using VLOOKUP. 😓 I don't know why they enjoy suffering.

I cannot get my coworkers, even in the tech team, to stop using VLOOKUP. 😓 I don't know why they enjoy suffering.

Questions concerning vaccinations are one of the most popular topics in ELI5, which means that the chances are very high that your question has already been asked and answered.  Since our rules require that you search before submitting a question, your post has been removed.  Please [take a look at these search results](/r/explainlikeimfive/search?q=vaccine+OR+vaccinate+OR+vaccination&restrict_sr=on&sort=relevance&t=all) and see if they address your question.  If you feel that your question is not adequatedly addressed by any of the dozens of previous threads on the topic, and is unique you can message the moderators. 

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Knock you off your feet?

6 inches of water is enough to lift a car and carry it.

To be clear when driving in a straight line the car that’s behind will actually have an advantage because of the slipstream effect. That’s basically the front car “moving the air” out of the way of the behind car making it easier for the behind car to gain speed. 

When both these cars go through corners the same effect is actually a disadvantage to the rear car because now it doesn’t have enough air to create downforce (the difference is actually very small but noticeable in formula 1). So in the corners it’s a disadvantage but an advantage when driving straight.

Extractable liquids underground - be it oil, water (aquifer) or whatever - are not big cavernous voids full of liquid. They are sections of underground geology where porous rock (typically sandstone or limestone) contains the liquid, and is capped by a non-porous rock layer like shale.

Removing the liquid does not materially change the structure of the porous rock, which does not necessarily collapse. Subsidence *can* occur when the liquid being extracted is coming from deep layers of soil instead of rock. Parts of California's central valley have subsided up to 30 feet over the decades, as groundwater is pumped out of deep clay soils to be used in agriculture.

And having pants that are too low to avoid getting the cuffs wet

Thank you, i wrote that post in bed before going to sleep and didn't elaborate, this helps

Oil drilling can absolutely destabilize the ground.

Oil is often far below the surface, so there's a lot of material and solid rock between the deposit and the surface. Oil isn't pooled like an underground ocean, it's in porous rock like a sponge. Remove the oil, the rock remains.

Removing the oil, drilling, or performing hydraulic fracking can still destabilize the ground, cause small earthquakes, or even cause the ground to collapse and form sinkholes.

The front of a Formula 1 car is carefully designed to make sure the air goes exactly the way they want. Away from moving parts like the wheels, but still going to parts that need cooling like the brakes, radiators and air intake. Some air under the floor to help the diffuser work but not so much that the car gets pushed up. But this all requires the air to be very still as the front wing hits it. Right behind the car there are lots of strong winds, air going up from the giant rear wing and diffuser, air coming in from the sides to replace it, air getting dragged behind the car, and generally lots of vortexes causing the air to go every which way. So suddenly you get lots of air to places where it should not go and not enough air to places where you need air.

It is not so much of an issue on the straight sections. In general the car behind gets lower drag and therefore higher top speed. But unlike other popular motor sports Formula 1 tracks do not have many long straight sections where cars with similar pace can overtake each other. So in order to overtake you need to preserve more speed through the corner then the car in front. But the dirty air means the car have less downforce and therefore does not grip the track as well. This means you can not brake as good into a corner, you need to slow down more before you turn, and you get less acceleration on exit. So even if you have managed to get to right behind the car in front, you lose time through the corner and are further behind on the next straight.

Adding to this because the air does not go where you want it to, it does not go to the brakes and radiators. So after driving closely behind another car for a bit you may get issues managing your thermals. This may cause the tyres to degrade faster making you slower, and the engine might reduce its power to prevent overheating. If you struggle to overtake you therefore have to slow down a bit and drive a few laps in clean air to cool down the car again.

That is an interesting observation. I can imagine your brain is more used to a sinking situation than a water rising situation and explains what it sees that way.

240s can pound me all day. I'd probably spend my last moments thankful to be around a nice baby blue Volvo 240.

People stylize oil in the ground as open caverns full of oil and nothing else, when really it's usually in porous rock.

Why doesn't your sponge fall apart when the water comes out of it? It's the same thing. The water in a sponge is in the pores inside the sponge, but the sponge itself is not dependent on the water being there to maintain its shape. That's just like the rock the oil is in, the rock holds itself together and the oil just happens to be inside it.

wait what the fuck, I use vlookup all the time lol how have I never heard of a goddamn xlookup

You can also use options to hedge when you're not confident.

Like say I hold shares in a company, but I know I need that money next year.  This year is bad for me to pay taxes on a capital gain, but I don't want to take any more risk.  I can offset some of that risk by taking an option that increases in value if my shares go down.  Since I don't want to sell, I can just borrow cash against the existing assets to raise cash for my option buy.

There's a lot you can do with options, but you're right.  It's usually something like the lunatics at wallstreetbets yolo'ing *more than* their life savings into something.

I have a biased opinion on the matter, as I am inherently against the death penalty at its core. 

My reasoning, more so, has to do with the fact that successfully executing someone humanely on top of the legal costs is far more expensive than it is to incarcerate someone for the remainder of their life. 

The biggest reason for me, though, is my subjective opinion that it is a far harsher punishment to imprison someone for 50-60+ years without the possibility of parole, that there is no hope, and that they will be forced to remain alive but will not actually get to live it, in the same way they prevented their victims from living theirs.

You ever seen a boat push water out of its way and form waves and bubbles as it passes? That's what an f1 car is doing when it cuts through the air, scrambling the calm air in front of it and having it roll off its body in random uneven waves. 

Each car is designed to perform in clean air scenarios, so if you can imagine the difference between trying to ride a jet ski through calm water compared with through the water directly behind another boat, you can probably get the idea. 

It's a lot harder because you have to micromanage staying on track and in a straight line through that dirty air, on top of then going faster than the guy in front

But you haven't had a bagel from New York! The local water makes the clump of bread more appealing! Anyone outside the 5 boroughs doesn't do it right! We are the best at mediocre breakfast bread!

Ok  but now, how would you survive it? say that maybe you want to experience how it feels to be "inside"?

it is kind of a race condition depending on your surroundings

if you were on a small island with little else on the island you would get pushed across the island to the other side and keep going into the sea, probably drowning because you would be well offshore

if you were on a beach that was relatively barren with a lot of open area inland behind you you would get pushed well inland and if you stayed at the front of the water have a decent chance of not getting pulled back out when the water recedes - 50/50 drowning

anywhere with trees or solid buildings in dense configurations you hopefully just get above the water because if you do not you are a plinko chip bouncing off all the anchored things eventually you get knocked out then it is a race between drowning and the next things that hit you.  if you manage to protect your head you either get caught up in a snag and drowned or pulled back out to sea and drowned by the water that made it through the obstacles faster than you did.

if you are anywhere with human improvements you get the bonus feature of floating large debris and human designed drainage to contend with before everything turns into a snag.

"dirty" air means the front of the following car isn't getting the same level of downforce to the front wheels 

This means less grip, which means less steering & control , making it much harder to control the vehicle , nor can it put as much power down to the rear wheels as the loss of front grip makes the back end more likely to step out and a spun or crash to occur

Max Verstappens driving setup is oriented toward oversteer and 'snapping' the front end round, most other drivers prefer understeer.  In dirty air Max can sit on their rear and use the rear tyres more to help rotate around a corner . Hamilton , Norris , Russell, antoneli can't due to setup and their driving styles.

This is why Max absolutely hooned it around Nurburgring completely against perceived wisdom of gt3 drivers.

Tldr - Dirty air means less grip, which means loss of handling and more risk of losing control.

Turbulence. At speed, moving through air is a bit like moving through water.

They're designed to move through relatively still air, but a car directly in front has just turned all the air you're about to drive into, into a sort of whirlpool or river rapids. 

The air no longer puts even force and pressure where you would expect them to be.the car does not behave like it should.

If the core wasn't hot and cold inside, wouldn't it lose that solar heat to the ground?

The aerodynamic bodywork of a Formula One car is designed to maximise downforce as air flows over the car. Once air has flown over the car, it is ‘disrupted’ and is becomes what is known as dirty air, i.e. the air is turbulent and not a perfect block of air for which the car’s aerodynamics is designed, therefore the car produces less downforce, so it cannot corner as quickly. 

Think of it this way - in which conditions will a speedboat travel quicker: on a glass-smooth lake of still water, or through swirling turbulent waves?

Of course, ‘dirty’ air is advantageous on the straights due to the lack of air resistance; downforce would make you slower.

F1 car made for regular air flow. Good flow all wings and flaps create steady force. Steady force increases at predictable rate. Means no surprise behaviour as car feel same most time. 

Dirty air, flow mixed up, more pressure in some areas, less in others mean wings not optimal. Might mean less front force which mean bad steer. Or mess with back force which could make spin as grip disappear, bad traction! 

Dirty air problem in corner, in straight good to have air cut. 

Also air is hot after go through ahead car. Hot air make tyres wear quicker, mean less grip faster. Brakes no cool as well, mean car not slow as well and wheels be hotter. Engine outside happy temperature. All things make car harder to drive long time close to ahead car.

It can be both, but I would say more likely impact.

Ever been to the Coast of the Pacific Ocean on the West Coast of the USA? I live in California, and even normal waves and surges will batter you to pieces against the rocks. Now consider instead of rocks it's cars and buildings and ...more rocks. 

  
I recall being in Hawaii in a snorkling area (Shark's Cove I think) and the wave motion, not even breaking waves was smashing me up against rocks and just trying to keep off them was very difficult ... and I was wearing swim fins and had goggles and a snorkle.

Even being in the water already when a 6 foot surge comes will F you up. If there are objects nearby (ie; cars and buildings) you will get beat to pieces ... then you have to try and swim with broken arms after smashing into the edge of a building.

Then you're talking about purchasing power which is a different thing, and you also have to take into account local salaries.

If, as per your example:

$1=7 Yuan  
A bottle of water in the US is $1  
A bottle of water in China is 1 Yuan, which = $1/7  
And the average earnings of an American is 7x more than in China....

Then the populations of those countries have "Purchasing Power Parity", because they can buy the same things with the same percentage of their (average) earnings. This is a measure which is often used to (attempt to) compare living standards between two countries. In reality the comparison is made on a "Basket of Goods". This "Basket of Goods" concept is used in other ways too, like to attempt to calculate cost inflation within a single country - you take a bunch of things that most people tend to buy, or which are considered to be a proxy for asking "broadly, how much does stuff cost?". It might include a selection of foods, clothing, maybe alcohol, the cost of a haircut, housing, utilities...   
  
So you bundle all that stuff together and say "How much does this cost in country A vs. country B", and then by comparing the difference AND the difference in average earnings between those two countries, AND take into account the exchange rate between those countries' currencies, you can say "It looks like the cost of living is higher in country A/B".

Looking at real world figures, you could expect the "Basket of Goods" in China to be about 3x more expensive (compared to average earnings) than in the US.

Or if you take a Basket of Goods and say "How much did all this same stuff cost here, a year ago" and if the price has gone from $100 to $110, you can say that inflation for the year is 10%. It's worth noting that the figures you end up with will be a bit different depending on what things you choose to include in your Basket of Goods. If one BoG has housing costs included and another doesn't, you might end up with wildly different figures, for example - particularly if, say, housing in one country has gone through the roof while in another country you're trying to compare it to, housing has slumped or stayed still.

The reality of it all is that it's a bit more complicated but these are the broad strokes.

To overtake, the car at the back has to be able to go faster than the car ahead. This usually happens if the car behind starts accelerating earlier and longer from the corner before the overtake then making the pass then braking hard for the next corner. 

With dirty air coming from the leading car, the trailing car's aerodynamics don't work as well. This means it is nearly impossible to start accelerating early and longer because the trailing car has to go slower around the corner before the potential overtaking zone.

Cars rely on downforce. Downforce is the air pushing down on the car which helps give it grip and traction. The harder you push your finger down on a table the harder it is to slide. 

When a car drives through the air, it creates turbulence behind it. That turbulence reduces the downforce of the cars behind it because the air is not longer cleanly drafting over the trailing car. 

Because the car behind has less downforce, it can’t go as fast as the car in front of it, and because it’s not going as fast it makes it harder to catch up and pass.

Imagine XML as a storage where you store some data.

* XPath is the location of the data (aisle 3, shelf 12).
* XQuery is a way to ask for the data (please bring me what I left in shelf 12)
* XSLT are the indication on how to send de data to the owner (data is fragile and must be wrapped as a gift). 
* XForms is one way to send your data to the storage and has nothing to do with the others than being structured as XML

Imagine you cut a potato with a sharp knife. You grab the potato tightly and  it is easy, because knives are design to cut a not moving potato.

Now imagine instead of holding the potato firmly, your hands are shaking. It is harder to cut the potato now.

F1 car is like a sharp knife cutting through air. They are design so that the air flows a certrain configuration around the car so car moves fast.

When you got dirty air, the car cuts the air but it doesnt follow the flow pattern, so your cant cant move fast.

So, when air is "clean" and hasn't been disturbed, it tends to stick to surfaces like layers of paper. The bottom layer sticks to the car's wing, and the layer above sticks to that, and so on.

Sometimes people can use this stickiness to direct the flow of the air upwards, downwards, or in nice circles. All of these tend to be quite stable - they keep on moving in the direction they were going anyway, until some point where they separate. A car will be slowed down by the air if it can't keep it "attached" to the aerodynamic surfaces, and it disappears off into nowhere.

For a car following behind, it will hit all of the air that is travelling off in different directions. That air is far less likely to behave like a nice stack of paper, but much more likely to behave like crumpled up paper. The word for "crumpled up" air is "turbulent" - it's not all going in the same direction and so doesn't help the aerodynamics as much.

Clean air has no turbulence, dirty air has turbulence.

Clean air passes smoothly over a car's aero surfaces, and then becomes turbulent (dirty) because of it.

Dirty air can actually oppose the forces the aero is trying to make with clean air, which actively introduces extra drag on the car.

I think we used to know, but we've... ugh, never mind.

It’s usually not like a previously untouched cave with a lake of oil but rather oil that is between the gaps of what the ground is made of. Though yeah occasionally oil drilling sites get sinkholes.

You might alsobe comparing apples to oranges in comparing the dollar to yen instead of the penny. The penny is so weak it became worth less than the copper it was made of and was discontinued

Sometimes oil extraction does destabilize the ground. See several earthquakes in Oklahoma.

It reduces airflow over the wings, and therefore less downforce for cornering grip.

Thanks for asking. I use vlookup in several of my tasks. Counting columns always seemed weird to me. I think I'll go check if it works with some of my spreadsheets!

It was in the worst possible place for it. The highly populated coasts of Indonesia, India, Bangladesh, Thailand... hundreds of millions of people live on those coasts, including millions of tourists at any given time.

It can and it does. Particularly with Fracking.

It's a small number of total "disturbances"(earthquakes) caused by it, but it does happen, and they are mostly small and unnoticeable.
However, a M4.5 quake was centered in Karnes County, Texas last January that the USGS attributed to Fracking.

It could be both contributing to your death. The force of a tsunami will likely crush you against some object, like a tree, car, building, etc. Then if the impact didn't kill you, you very likely might drown, now that you are battered and also trying to stay afloat/swim in very fast moving water filled with dangerous objects.

It is. But radioactive elements within slowly decay and release additional heats to slow the cooling down. IIRC it is estimated that currently half of the heats within Earth are residual from the formation while the other half are from radioactive decays.

It is still cooling though, just very slowly. The heat transfer is something like 47 TW, which is only a bit more than humanity produces and only a *really small fraction* of what Earth receives from the Sun (173000 TW)

falling stuff from a Tornado is more likely to hurt you than flying stuff. Winds outside of a Tornado's core are strong enough to fell trees, powerlines, signs.

most oil reserves are 1-3 miles down, so there is a LOT of rock between the surface and the oil.  And as others have pointed out, the oil is often embedded in pores in the rock (which is why fracking may be necessary)

I feel bad for making a bit of a jest about it now sorry 🥺

\> Right. Unsliced bread is going to be proper, fresh, bakery bread, not manufactured like the branded sliced loaves.

Tell me you've never been to Walmart without telling me.

Oh this is ELI5: air slow car down.

is there a subreddit for this? I bet there is

Also, that tsunami is going to go in both directions. After the wave drags you inland with a few hundred boats, cars, and neighborhoods it’s going to drag you a few miles out to sea and leave you there.

The oil is not in a pocket under the ground, it is inside porous rocks.

One point is a point.
Two points is a line, no mater how you arange them.
Three points can be a line if you put points in line. Hence additional restriction. This also leads to a conclusion that you need at least thre points and by definition its a triangle.

A lot of oil deposits aren't like a lake of oil under the ground. More often it's like gravel with oil in the gaps, so removing the oild doesn't affect the stability of the rock. Or it's like mud with oil instead of water.  But sometimes you do get sinkholes around oil fields.

Sure, but they dont pump from directly below them. After they dig down a while they go at an angle horizontally and start pulling from surrounding areas. That's why there are so many sinkholes in Florida and why they have lots of earthquakes in some places.

Troy Davis and Cameron Todd Willingham. In Troy's case, I believe it was the mother of the police officer, and she didn't exactly express happiness about Troy being executed, but a desire to "move on." That sounds just as callous but because Troy was found guilty in a jury trial not once, but twice, she genuinely believed him to be guilty, which is a shame. As for the alleged witnesses, one of the only ones who didn't recant his testimony was one of the other suspects.

As for Cameron, the fire marshal tried to explain that the forensic evidence used to convict Cameron was junk science but the governor at the time was Rick Perry, who was running for president at the time. He's the one who rushed Cameron's execution so the inconvenience of an innocent man on death row wouldn't hurt his campaign.

It's the difference between putting on a down parka and a normal jacket when there's a high wind.  "omg it's so cold it's minus 50 with the WIND CHILL"

Reality: It's minus 10 with a 40mph wind and calm the fuck down.

Nominal value simply does not matter. Look at something like purchasing power index to get an actual idea how well people are doing in a country. It doesn't matter what the number at the cashier is. How long you need to work to get the money for that product is an actually transferable number.

Or pay what the jobe is worth

It's sunny, bring an umbrella!

Reminds me of the Japanese tsunami video where the person filming was in their car and the car was just floating/being carried along.  Was safer to stay inside than risk being crushed, so long as the car continued to float anyways

I think I read they even had to abandon the car and were able to get up onto a building

Yes. Die by drowning and/or impact of objects

It is hard to keep your head above water after you are pushed into large objects and injured. Either you are knocked out or lose strength.

If an object like a car or boat hit your body, it might cause a quicker death.

Some people survive by swimming or holding on to something stable.

Video evidence that a tsunami is a giant wave?

They are various software standards relating to the use or modification of e**X**tensible **M**arkup **L**anguage (XML) documents. It's something of a trend that if protocol or something uses XML it will be called "Xsomething".

If even 1 person is found to be innocent, then there needs to be better ways to determine guilt in these cases. Many, many, many people don't deserve to continue to live after the things they've done. And continues to do later. Like we have that vid of the guy killing that girl on the train not to long ago. Would that be evidence enough of him to allow an execution?

When you put dish soap on a sponge and immediately wash the dishes you get tons of suds. If you put soap on sponge (and wet it briefly) then let it sit, when you come back to it, barely any suds.

... you’re asking about putting soap on a sponge, putting it away and coming back to it...

Yeah, I'm not entirely sure either of your wordings are particularly clear.

Are you "suds-ing up the sponge and coming back to find the bubbles gone" or "pre-soaping the sponge and finding the longer you wait to use the sponge the fewer suds get formed" or something else entirely?

I was staying in Palau Nias Island in Indonesia (100 km from the epicenter). 

The Earthquake was a 9.1 in the richter (sp) scale. I am a hard sleeper so slept through the quake in the middle of the night. My friend and a German tourist across the way did felt it and were startled. When we woke up for breakfast, we noticed the small bay we were staying had receded. I wish I had taken a picture, but I wasn’t educated into what a Tsunami was at the time. It wasn’t as exaggerated as in the movie Deep Impact, but the locals said they had never seen the bay empty like that. 

We naively went on our tourist day like normal and took a moto taxi to a nearby town to book a boat back to Sumatra. The whole town was closed with wood nailed on the windows and doors. We took a moto taxi back. By that time it was lunch so we went across the street from our hotel to eat. That’s when the first wave hit. It was just a gradual wave to thigh (I’m 6 ft 2 in) or waist (shorter people) height. We went to the hotel. The water eventually rose flooding the first floor and part of the second floor. Later in the afternoon, the water receded. We went to the beach and saw the waves acting up still, but at a safe distance. You could see street areas flooded though. The water both in the bay and on this places was mixed with sand)” so was super brown. 

Later in the afternoon, we were told to evacuate to higher ground. Took another moto taxi (this guy charged us $10 like 10times more) to a nearby traditional village to spend the night. It was up in the hills. I’m taking long house style Indonesian traditional homes. The ancestors knew about these so always built up in the hills. We slept on the wooden floors in our sleeping bags.

Next day, we rode to the opposite side of the island to take the first flight out. As we rode, the ocean was flat, still, and super blue. Almost as if it had healed itself. The island though took a beating with downed trees and homes near the coast. Most of these were wooden homes. Our hotel was concrete so it survived. 

Anyway, we took a flight to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia that day. When we landed we heard that over 250,000 people died. It is still unreal to even talk about it.

Or if they can't fit dollies, they drag it until they can.  Or if it has to go on a flatbed and they can't put it in gear and take the ebrake off, they drag it.

The prices are not identical. I don’t care what you think you found by googling the cheapest bottle of water you can find and comparing to your assumption of what a bottle of water costs in China. Your money very much gets the buying power of 7$ for one US dollar.

Tsunamis carry away whole buildings, trees, cars, etc. So obviously drowning is a huge risk but so is being pummeled or impaled by different things. Or, you know, all of the above.

As someone who has been using vlookup for years, whats the difference ? Instead of putting a number for the number of columns after the first array, you can just select the column directly?

As someone who uses adblock everywhere and doesn't have cable, watching TV ads is a bit of a trip because they vary between absolute brainrot like the Insurance Cinematic Universe nonsense, or running literally the same ad I saw 15+ years ago living with my parents.

True, but the water is also FULL of debris. There's a decent chance you'd die from being skewered or smashed into stuff as well.

Money borrowed from your exchange using your portfolio as collateral and part of the calculation so they decide how much leverage they can give you

You go to where the people are and hope that some are helping to set up emergency shelters. If not, YOU help to set up emergency shelters for everyone. 

People come together to help each other in massive crises like these in the first hours. After that you hope that outside help (governmental, other nearby towns, etc.) comes with supplies and shelter.

I don't think that's correct. Lots of video evidence out there.

Kinda. Shorting is you borrow 10 stocks worth 1000 dollars from a person. You promise to give that person back those stocks within a month. You then go and sell his stocks.

After a month, the price of the stock has fallen 10%. You then buy back 10 stocks for 900 Usd, and give those stocks back to the person. You keep the 100 usd profit you made

Margin is a fancy term for borrowing money against your own money in a brokerage account, at a certain interest rate determined by your broker. 

If you have $10,000 in cash or assets, you’ll get $10,000 in margin. This gives you $20,000 in buying power as opposed to your original $10,000. 

With your original $10,000 you could buy 100 shares of Stock A at $100 a share. With your added margin, you can purchase an additional 100 shares. Let’s also pretend that your margin interest rate is 5% a year. 

Let’s say Stock A goes up by 10% in a year when you sell. Your 200 shares are now worth $22,000. However, you borrowed $10,000, which you must now pay back, plus $500 (5%) of interest. Your net total is $11,500 and your net profit is $1,500. 

In this example, Stock A went up by 10%, but your net profit on your original $10,000 is 15%, because you used margin. If you didn’t buy those additional 100 shares using margin, you’d simply have an extra 10% at the end of the year when you sell. 

Another important aspect is the margin maintenance requirement, which dictates the minimum amount of equity your account must have in order to trade on margin, which is typically 30% for most stocks. 

What does that mean? Using the example above, because you purchased $20,000 worth of securities in a margin account, you must keep your account value above 30%, or $6,000, or else you’ll get margin called, which is another fancy term for “forced to pay them back.” 

They’ll make you sell your stocks and deposit money into your account until they’re whole, or else you’ll risk getting your account closed, debt sold, and sent to a collections agency.

Feynman has been a personal hero of mine for decades.

The image of a guy being suddenly slapped with a full house gave me the loudest laugh of today. Thank you fellow redditor.

Hello Severe_Market_6758,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

All of this, but also could be a vinyl wrap.  Just like with aftermarket paint, you get what you pay for.  A cheap hack job is gonna be a cheap hack job, but a talented professional can do some pretty amazing things with sufficient time and money.

Here is the breakdown of deaths from the 15k who died in Japan:

They point out some bias in that the default is 'drowning', but again, it is an event in which strong water overruns an area. You can't breathe water. Most people die from trying to breathe while under the water.

Yeah I guess if they had the right vehicle available wouldn't be terribly difficult. The garage I'm thinking of had probably about 5.5' of clearance (low beam in the middle that I had to duck to walk under) so you could probably squeeze in an older Ford ranger. Last ramp up to the street was extremely steep and sketchy even to just drive my car up but once you got it pulled up 2 levels to that point you could just block traffic and winch it up with a tow truck if you had to. Would certainly be more work than most repo jobs though!

I’m sorry you had  to see that. Nightmare fuel.

Your explanation is superb.

OP also asked about Pivot Tables.

Can you explain those too?

Everyone seems to have only read the title (VLOOKUP) and not the body (Pivot Tables).

"This currency is weak" has a real meaning in economics, but it doesn't mean what OP thinks it means. Like, the Japanese Yen is a relatively strong currency (compared to e.g., the currency of Lebanon)

It’s buying stocks on credit

Isn't that kind of the inverse as shorting?  

Instead of borrowing money to buy stocks, you borrow stocks to sell them.

Ahhh gotcha. It was all interconnected and when one layer collapsed the whole system collapsed. Wow crazy. I should have got into finance.

My parents planted redwoods at their house in Vacaville in the 90s. They don't live there anymore, but the trees are huge now and I worry about them coming down for this reason.  They had to use a huge construction drill to even dig the holes for the saplings, because the ground was baked solid.

Glad you liked it 😉. 

Sad it has been removed

Take my upvote and Salute.

What on earth are you talking about? Have you even seen light flooding? Tree trunks shooting like trucks down the street? Sure, it might not be bad 89mph but a 5 ton trunk will just as easily squash you with 4 mph.

And the water will be spinning and rushing as it passes more solid objects.

I wish there was more to offer, but I'm sorry you had to see that.

ever see a hurricane surge? 

  
its basically that. they arent like in the movies. go look at that asian one.. its just a foot of white-water that is unstoppably rolling into the city 

  
water is pure power though. cant really stop it in this situation

It looked like the entire landmass was sinking into the ocean and the water was rushing over it as it dropped.

I think that's an even better description than the one I've used.  I used to say it's like a big river has just come to town.

For where I live, in southeast Asia, it means fewer but stronger typhoons. Which is obviously a big concern.

Amen.

That said, *I* like to think of a memory as the creation of synapses, and connections between neurons.

Now, I don't know if that gives with the understanding of neuronal (a)plasticity in the adult human brain, but it lends itself nicely to the characteristics of memories that we note at a macroscopic level — specifically their strengthening with recall, and the need for rest/sleep in order to turn short term memories into long term ones†

†I think of this as 'shorting' a synaptic path: a short term memory is something that is a longer neuronal circuit, involving multiple multi-branch neurons, where one branch is triggered during the creation/recall of the memory. The conversion of this to a long term memory involves the creation of one-to-one synapses between the neurons (where the potential for an alternative route of activation is reduced, and therefore the memory is more indelible, and less confused).

                        __________C-----D
                       |                            _____F
A ------ B-------|                            |
                       |__________E-----|______G

A short term memory: activation of the path A, B, E, F

The long term memory - creation of the one-to-one interface, and connections as shown below

A---B---E---F

Most likely drowning after being knocked unconscious by colliding with something inland.

They should advertise on “this is a butter delivery device” 😀

When I say insurance, think of it more like an Options Trade. Banks make deals like this all the time, and even have people on staff called “market makers” whose only job is to take bets against people who wanna make bets, to make people feel like there’s someone to sell to or buy from when the market feels unstable. 

But back to your point, why did banks (buy MBS products), as I said before it seemed like free money. They weren’t aware of the risk. There are ratings agencies that supply a risk analysis for what was inside the MBS product, and what they did was basically take a bunch of different loans and combine them to get an average. Think so many A, B, C, D, and F students, and they stuck them all in the same classroom and called it diversified. So long as so many students pass for the year, the loans were stable. However, in an effort to keep manufacturing classrooms that made money, they couldn’t keep the same proportion of good/bad students, so they snuck in worse and worse students, and when they couldn’t sell the bad classrooms anymore they could package it up at a school level, and then sell partial loans to somebody who would have previously bought a class. So the idea was basically so long as you have enough payers, you’re protected from any one individual not paying. They weren’t expecting everybody to stop paying at once. That was the big factor that caused this to escalate to so much of a bigger catastrophic issue. One bad test, everybody in the class is suddenly failing for the year, and the school is potentially going to be seized by the state. 

And to add to that, they felt comfortable, because basically it was an endless cycle of backing. They were all acting like the middle schoolers taking bets for sure, but also buying their own insurance policy from the high schoolers who would back them up if things went wrong. The high schoolers would buy their own insurance policies from other high schoolers and it was just layer of layer of passing the hot potato, as money got traded around for who wanted the risk, and that’s why above it was mentioned nobody knew who was holding bad debts, because after the blowup there was this huge question of if X bank goes under, and they hold our insurance guarantee, we don’t have the money to pay for our insurance guarantees. So it was a systemwide failure. A couple of banks that were more leveraged than others took the fall, but like everybody was engaged in moving around this debt and was making ALOT of money off it, until they weren’t.

Tsunamis never happen and are pretty much impossible to happen in Scandinavia.

To be realistic, there's no real need to "add" C to Fe. It's there naturally. They tend to bond readily and irn ore is overly bonded with C ( for our purposes.) It's more a question of how much you take out to achieve what ever steel you wish to create

While I'm fun-facting: feels like assumes bare skin. If you're wearing a heavy jacket, "feels like" and "windchill" are no longer relevant

This is possibly one of the silliest takes I've ever heard.

"Do I need to put a jacket on?"

"Well, the 'feels like' temperature is only relevant for bare skin, so we have no idea."

I'd heard about this, and had no idea the death toll was anywhere near close to this. What an epic tragedy.

The judicial system is flawed. The death penalty is justified (obviously in my opinion) for the most egregious of cases, but for juries to be pushed to impose it is one flaw in the system.

The other is the series of flaws in the judicial system like prejudice, ego of “experts” and a bunch of other stuff. Don’t have a specific example off the top of my head, but there have been (iirc) experts who have been discredited after many trials where their testimony and has been a big factor in conviction.

If I have video evidence of a person murdering a child in cold blood, I’d convict on the death penalty instantly. This implies the defendant was found competent to stand trial (also a flaw in the system)

All these things in one day in Ireland so 🤷

Emotions are an important part of how humans function

But they are not an important part of how *governments* are meant to function. Governments should be prioritizing the welfare of the people over satisfying punishment fetishes. Case in point, anyone who isn't blinded by an emotional need to see someone be punished can tell that there is absolutely good reason that it should not be quick or easy for the government to execute its own citizens.

There are not constitutional issues.

There absolutely are constitutional issues to trying to designate some cases as "obvious" and therefore skipping over the usual appeals process for executions. Do you seriously not think this idea raises very pressing 5th amendment questions at the very least?

Am I missing something? Every bagel or English muffin I’ve had is sliced all the way through, you have two halves.

R. I. P. once you do

You know, sometimes we just like to have interesting conversations.

We used to call it Droned.

I get why the law exists and agree with the spirit of the law but not the rule of the law. Because at worst it's the wrong place at the wrong time, or someone did something that had you would have known they would do that you would choose not to be involved.

most stock trading is done with your money...

margin trading is taking out a big loan and trading with that money...

People do it because if you have 25k with the right brokerage account you can borrow say 200k and when a stock goes up 10% you make 20k instead of 2k. (round numbers to make things easy)...

But because its borrowed money, if the stock goes in the wrong direction, you can lose your 25k much easier and be forced out of the trade. as the bank takes its money + fees back.

This is a big over simplification but yeah...

I’m not familiar with the company you’re talking about.

There’s no rule that says that aftermarket paint is worse than OEM.

*cheap* aftermarket paint is worse than OEM, and most people who are re-painting a car are doing it to an older car and/or aren’t paying top top dollar for it.

Professionals, for the right amount of money, can paint a car as good or even nicer than a car factory.

So, you signing up to do a dime upstate?

No?  But it’s so wonderful now.  Almost like the claims it’s too nice aren’t actually true.

Nobody knows. That's the answer. It's probably too short to pass the ELI5 top level filter, but that's the answer and truth. The amount we know about memory and consciousness and attention is so pathetically thin it's laughable we even talk about it like a thing we can define.

It's easy to use for looking up values in a table.

Possibly. There is mild evidence that Venus is still volcanic and might possibly have plate tectonics, and we don't have any evidence that it took a Theia-class impact. But it's also closer to the sun, so more of the heavier materials would have been more in its orbit than ours... we don't know enough about any of it to know for certain, especially about the actual surface and subsurface of Venus and Mars.

Being crossfaded means being drunk and high at the same time

A flat of Kirkland Signature water bottles is 10.77USD, and has 80 bottles, or a little under 14 cents a bottle. A yuan is a little over 14 American cents. The price, in other words, is virtually identical, as long as you don't willingly overspend on water - other American water is a dollar a bottle because people are willing to pay a dollar a bottle and America is fundamentally capitalist.

And i always welcome those that can link it

Great answer! A lot of these answers here only mentions wind or humidity etc, or are overly long.

Depends where you are. The air doesn't float over like a conveyor belt, more like a lava lamp.

Rain is more common at certain latitudes where warm and cold air mix. In general, warm air pushes further north but that also causes it to swirl more (which is unpredictable).

Third possibility: torn to shreds by the debris in the water.

We don't really know. There's a lot about the brain/psychology that we aren't sure about.

The current (at least when I studied psychology) theory is that it's neural pathways. 

So chemical signals get sent along a specific set of neurons and that is a memory. 

How that retains information we don't really know.

The danger of a tornado isn't *that* the wind is blowing; it's *what* the wind is blowing.

You can withstand a lot of wind blowing, but you can't withstand being hit by a house that is blown by the wind.

Just to add, the effects you can expect from an El Niño, drier or wetter, bitter or colder, depend where you live.

Plenty of fjords have ridiculously fast tides too.

Also keeps them from coming apart into a over bulging bag.

Your chances of dying on a rollercoaster ride is 0.00000013%. That's 1 in 750 million. You have a better chance at winning the lottery if you buy 12 tickets.

In essence you are just buying stock with a loan backed by coIlateral (margin). If you're right and the stock goes up, you win a profit much larger than if you had invested the money you actually had on hand. If you're wrong and the stock goes down, the broker can sell off your positions and pocket your collateral without your permission. High risk, high reward. 

Usually a bad idea for hobbyist investors and it is one of the main ways you see gambling addicts on wallstreetbets lose their shirts.

Worse yet, in a lot of industries that free volunteering/internship is a deliberate *(and easily supported by the desire for profit)* method of ensuring only those in the 'good ol'boys club' can join.

Outside of some very lucky breaks *(even if you're good not everyone gets the scholarships, etc)* if you don't have sufficiently rich parents, you can't do 6 months or a year of unpaid full-time work, while your loans start building up interest and the rent gets due. You just can't. So only those who can afford to do that get those positions...

Not sure what you mean guy….like getting drunk and then smoking pot?

If so, I honestly don’t feel like they interact a ton. Not in my experience at least, but maybe it’s an individual body thing. For me once I’m drunk that mostly takes over other substances. I don’t feel the weed almost at all.

Its basically a way to join data from perhaps two sheets

A simple example is this

  
Lets say you have a sheet 1 with a list of employees and their name  

|EMPLOYEE ID|NAME|
|:-|:-|
|100|Joe Smith|
|101|Jane Doe|

  
Then  you have another sheet 2 with employee check information , it has the employee ID but no check name

|Employee ID|Check #|Check Amount|
|:-|:-|:-|
|100|10001|$400|
|101|10002|$300|

But what on the sheet with the checks you want to add the employee name?

You can use vlookup or xlookup  to look at the employee ID on sheet 2 then grab it from sheet 1 so you can now add the employee name to the list of checks

so now you can have

|Employee ID|Check #|Check Amount|Name|
|:-|:-|:-|:-|
|100|10001|$400|Joe Smith|
|101|10002|$300|Jane Doe|

So there is no really short and long term memory as such, rather short term memory is what our brains haven't deeply processed, and long term memory is. The best example is that if we repeat something over and over again, we will not forget it while we are repeating it. But if we think about it, that is, process it properly in some way, it will go into long term memory.

They think “wave” and therefore it recedes.

It doesn’t.  It’s just keeps coming and climbing.  And so fast it’s unbelievable.

Hello justifer-gapes,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Margin trading is borrowing money to trade beyond you own money. 

Say you feel really strongly that XYZ corp is going to go up 20% and you have $100,000 to invest. But you want to make more than just $20,000 off the trade so you borrow another $100,000 on margin and buy $200,000 worth of XYZ shares. If you're right, you make $40,000 and pay back the $100,000 borrowed. If you're wrong, you may have debt you have trouble repaying...

Tsunamis are such long wave lengths that it is more like the ocean rising and flooding the land before retreating.

This is really important.

People expect a wall of water. I've seen news articles reporting on a tsunami that said it was a wall of water. I've seen pictures accompanying these articles that showed walls of water.

This incorrect expectation means that people do not recognize the signs of a real tsunami. *People die* because of this.

Tsunamis are not walls of water folks. The water goes way, way down, then way, way up, etc. And when it's up, either you're somewhere else, or it's like you've been dropped into a raging river. Be somewhere else, please.

In some Canadian communities it is relevant in preserving historical buildings that might be having structural/facade issues from renovations over time + settling / sinking of the building. Can help reinforce faces from twisting motions. Not common though, most modern brick construction have a lot more uniform bricks and better tolerances needing less grouting.

If you're looking for a mechanistic explanation, you'll probably be waiting a long time

Follow up question, are we re-wetting the sponge when we return? (I've never tried this in real life).

Because prison isn’t the hellhole it used to be. They get tablets in a lot of states now, maybe all of them. The thought of the person who raped and killed your sister kicking his feet up playing games on a fucking tablet is unbearable for a lot of people.

I forgot that one!  My primary experience was for rivers

Ahh yes. In the same year we can get an Alaska deep freeze and unusually hot temperatures (last time that meant 100s for 2 weeks straight). That’s nice.

This reminds me of the Seinfeld where they take the "nonfat" yogurt to a lab.

If it's a song that you've listened to a lot then you're used to hearing the normal outro, it can be jarring to hear it start to fade out and fade into an entirely different song, especially if you're hearing it while high and drunk

Are we getting more rain in the west coast then? Or warmer days?

On your mixer, you probably have the curves set too high, especially on the DJM-1000. Turn the curves adjustment knob to the right unless you are doing beat juggling.

Instead of your brain and body reacting to one substance, it is reacting to two or more substances at the same time. The effects of experiencing two substances at the same time will feel more intense than experiencing the effects of one substance on its own.

The yen is equivalent to pennies

2,000 yen is $20...which is 2,000 cents

This is correct. 

The issue is admittedly a fault of linguistic and word usage, because ‘feels like’ in everyday conversation is a subjective observation, while with weather is a measurement system. 

  
The former describes what the average person feels and how we describe our individual experience. the latter is a reading utilizes air temp and either a) humidity (heat index) or b) air temp and wind speed (wind chill). The measurements are formulated to be the closest approximation of what the human body experiences. 

 Fahrenheit follows a similar logic.

Feels like doesn't mean whether or not you will be comfortable. It just means that based on other non temperature factors like wind or humidity or cloud coverage the experience might be colder or warmer than the actual temperature.

Its like the whole how do I know that my experience of blue and your experience of blue are the same shade and color? Well, it doesn't matter because we've agreed to call that experience blue. 

In terms of 'feels like', whether or not 65 F is cold to you doesn't matter but that's what it's going to feel like.

Get Bays English Muffins. They're weirdly refrigerated but are fully sliced and pull apart easily. They're also the best I've had. I toast up the open face in my toaster oven on the bagels setting. 10/10

They're still extremely relevant. The *reason* you're wearing that heavy jacket is because it is cold out.

It's taking debt to trade stocks.

For example, normal trading is like betting $100 on a card game. If you win, you make $50.

Margin trading is you take a $1000 loan and bet it on a card game. If you win, you make $500 after paying back the loan.

It turns good deals into great deals, at the risk of losing everything.

Vlookup is a function that lets you find other pieces of information. The name stands for "vertical lookup". You have to define a range to look up in. Then, in the first vertical column, it searches for the provided value. Then the output is a value that is at that same vertical level (that same row), but shifted a certain number of columns over.

What's a task where you might want to look up information? I used Vlookup in LibreOffice to make a translator for my conlang Värleutic (an invented language). 

The data is formatted like this: in one column, I have English-language codes for a bunch of concepts; then in another column are all the corresponding words in my conlang. For example, the word for "write" is "*gërëvaun*"

I can type a sequence of linguistic codes (called glossing abbreviations), and then the spreadsheet converts them into proper grammar for my language. So when I write `this_INAN_ERG 1s.GEN method COP.3s Varleutic.INST write_v.GER.DAT`, the writer page strips these all down to their roots e.g. "method", "write\_v". Then I use Vlookup to look up each code in my dictionary table, to return the corresponding root in the language. (Then I attach the endings... like how in English the word "write" can have the endings "you write" or "he write**s**", my language does that too.)

So this lets me translate `this_INAN_ERG 1s.GEN method COP.3s Varleutic.INST write_v.GER.DAT` into *Kroá miit skvëráns ës värlütjo gërëvuávëm*, which means "This is my method for writing in Värleutic."

There are math formulas to determine the apparent loudness of a sound, based on the energy present at various frequencies. It's calculated.

But the experience of hearing a sound, and how low it is, is subjective.

There's a billion things in this world that are calculated and subjective.

imagine your sensory experiences and emotional state as a string. one drug pulls it one direction, the other drug pulls it a different direction, and the tension in the middle? that's where you are.

It’s trading with borrowed money. People do it because it allows you to realize greater profit than just using your own money. 

Say I know of an investment that I know will make a 5% profit. I could invest $100 of my own money and make $5. Or I could borrow $1,000, combine it with the $100 I already have, make $55 and pay back the borrowed money. 

“Margin” refers to how much of your own money you have tied up in the investment, vs. borrowed money. 

Of course, the risk is that there’s no such thing as a guaranteed return. You could borrow $1,000 and the investment could LOSE 5% instead, or 50%, or become worthless.

And if you survive all of that you might just get swept back out to sea because there's no way that you can swim against the current as it recedes.

Margin trading is borrowing money to buy stocks and using the value of your account as collateral.

The traditional thinking was something like "I have a long term investment in something stable - but I would like to make a short term investment in something. Instead of selling long term investments to free up money, will you just lend me some money guaranteed by the value of my investment?" 

In practice it's a way of increasing leverage on trades - you can borrow the maximum amount possible so you can make the most profit from short term changes... but also it exposes you to much more risk since you can lose money you don't actually have.

Like in basketball? /s

One common answer is that in some places (specifically in New York) there was a tax on prepared foods.

A whole bagel is considered a grocery item and not subject to extra tax, whereas the second you slice, toast or put cream cheese on it, it becomes a prepared food item subject to taxes.

So bakeries would leave them unsliced or half sliced since they were technically a whole item and not subject to the tax. The tradition then evolved from that tax as they became more common and widespread outside of New York and Montreal, two cities that many jewish immigrants moved to.

The modern reason is likely to preserve their freshness for longer.

Seeing the house just casually float across the street at 6:25 is just plain eerie.

Sounds like tsunami's and tornadoes have similar risks ( which makes sense ) 

You're not likely going to die by getting lifted by a tornado. Its the holes punched through you by flying debris.

No, because the release schedule is Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Usually. Sometimes he's a bit late posting one, but you just catch up if you think you missed one.

If he released daily, then absolutely we would.

Crossfading what exactly? Music? Colors?

It’s buying stocks on credit. People do it because they don’t have cash but still want to buy stocks. If your stocks become more valuable then all’s good, you can sell them, pay back your loan, and you’ve made a nice little profit. If the stocks become less valuable than what you bought them for you’re in trouble, and you’ve got to find the money somewhere else to pay back the loan.

Margin trading is training on borrowed money.

You do it because you're confident in your investment.  For some people, it's a required thing for option trading because options have the chance to go negative, but in general people do it because they confident in their investment but don't have the up front cash to invest.

It isn't inherently bad, but it has the potential to go bad if you're wrong.

You're confusing things. There are objective facts about subjective states. The subject/object label applies in different ways. One is about ontology, the other epistemology.

When you put hot soup on the table, it cools off. 

When you blow on it, it cools off faster. 

When the soup is cooling off faster, it's like it's in a colder room than it really is. 

That's the "feels like" temperature.

Usually wind at the equator blows west - carrying the heated surface water of the Pacific from America towards Australia and Asia. That's why Australia and India are much hotter than equivalent latitude in the americas.

This has positive feedback loop, the phenomenon  reinforces itself by water evaporation on the hotter side (causing low pressure that pulls in more wind).

El nino is when this cicle temporarily breaks, causing temperature fluctuations and climate fluctuations in general.

I 100% call bullshit on this, since it would be trespass and illegal, unless the lot agreed to this (and arguably all the car owners not being repoed) and I have no idea why they would open themselves to that bullshit.

I'm sure that not every single person who does repo has done it in a lawful manner, but pretending this is normal or acceptable is nonsense.

It's like being in a washing machine half filled with bricks on full cycle...

Lots of "XLOOKUP!!!" comments but here's the ELI5 version:

Imagine you have a list of names and addresses neatly arranged in to two columns. Your mum tells you to look for Joey so you can send him a birthday card. You start at the top of the list and look down until you find Joey - you then look to the right and write his address on the card.

She then asks you to do the same thing for Michael, so you scroll your eyes down the list until you find Michael and write his address on the other birthday card.

In this scenario, the birthday cards are the cells you put the vlookup formula in.

Now imagine you have a list with Names, Addresses and Shoe sizes.

You're kind of stupid, you're a computer after all, so you look down the list for Joey and you have been told "IT IS THE THIRD COLUMN FOR SHOE SIZES!!!" so you only write down Joey's shoe size rather than his address.

vlookup does the same thing, but you can repeat it quickly by copy-pasting it down a list.

It’s a matching function between different lists. You assign the function something to search and then it will search a designated range and return the first result.

An example would be a list of all the students in a school in column A and their respective GPA in column B.

If you wanted to find the GPAs of one class, you would list out all of the students in that class and then set the vlookup to search the individual student as the search portion, and the lookup range would be columns A & B with the return function being the GPA in column B. 

This would allow you to get the GPAs quickly without manually searching for each one

Can confirm XLOOKUP is just superior in every way.

The combination of how the actual temperature, humidity, and wind affect how we feel is an arbitrary measurement. There is obviously science behind how the formula was derived, but nevertheless it is not an inherent truth and is just an estimation.

Yes for sure, but they made it just in time

\*\*I have a table with food items as rows, and various data points like Cost, Price, Supplier, Item ID,… as columns.\*\*

Say I wanna look up automatically the price of Banana and multiply that by a FX conversion rate on a different table, I can use V/Xlookup for that.

= XLOOKUP("Banana", food\_column, price\_column, 0) \* XLOOKUP("Brazil", country\_column, currency\_rate\_column, 0) = my result

This allows you to do dynamic calculations, while keeping your data tables clean. You can focus on updating the data in your tables, and the lookup functions will automate the rest in another part of your excel sheet without fudging your raw data.

It's not subjective, its based off of measurable science based off how the humidity effects the bodies evaporative cooling. "Feels like" is a bad way to describe it and is a dumbed down version of heat index.

Sure, and without knowing more about that situation, it’s incredibly likely that there was a failure on the part of the ride operator in that case, and the secondary safety measure worked as it was supposed to.

I’m not saying things never ever go wrong.  I’m saying there are safeguards and engineering in place to minimize them in the vast majority of situations.

All those points cards that many stores give are mostly to collect and sell your data.

If everything was perfect, it would be robotic and soulless.

The "feels like" temperature is a wet bulb reading, which incorporates the rate of evaporation which is tied to realitive humidity. We cool out selves by sweating, and the higher the humidity the less able we are to have the evaporated sweat cool us off, which makes it feel hotter.

In the winter, this isn't as much of a factor unless you are warm enough tonhiver around the freezing mark, but the wind and its chilling effect plays a huge roll.

Your *experience* can be subjective. The formula cannot.

A 14-metre high wave is technically correct. But it is not the thing you are visualizing when you usually think of a wave.  It is very long. It doesn't look like a tall mountainous peak, not because it isn't tall but because it remains just as tall for as far as you can see. And it all of that is moving towards you.

I assume the wave will drag you along and tumble you up with debris. I guess it depends on how long you can hold your breath and what kind of debris you're washing away with.

At that point I'm pretty sure those people were riding the bikes to get out of there.

Generally speaking:

When working with data, sometimes you'll want to look up some unknown value based on a known value.  IE, You might wonder how much Reddit Karma I have.  You don't know this, you only know my user name.  Now Reddit gives you a mechanism to look this information up.  You go to my profile page and go to wherever it is that shows that information and voila, you can see my Karma score.

In Excel, (and other tools like Power BI), data is typically stored in a "tabular" format - in other words, a table with rows and columns.  For the above example, imagine a big table with all Reddit user names, the associated email, account creation date, 50 other columns, and karma score.  Here, if you wanted to look up my karma score, you'd use the XLOOKUP (or VLOOKUP if you must, or INDEX/MATCH if you're feeling crazy) function.  The XLOOKUP function takes in specific arguments: The value you want to look up (my username), the field in which that value should reside (username column), and the field you want to return (karma score).  Excel handles the code/logic to go find that row with my username and return the karma score column.  Now you can see my score without having to sort and filter for me manually.

Pivot tables are a tool for aggregating data.  Rather than looking for my specific user name, you might want to determine the average karma for ALL users based on the year the account was created in order to do an analysis of karma scores over time (IE, did accounts created during the COVID years get more karma because people had less to do).  You wouldn't really use lookups within a pivot table (though you might use them to build a table you want to use for your pivot table).

Unless forced to use an older version of excel, there is really no reason to use V anymore. Xlookup is superior in every possible way. They only leave the V option because it was such a staple for so many years, lots of files are already using it and many people are familiar with it. But for any new formulas created there’s no reason to pick V over X

In most states that still have capital punishment, death sentences trigger automatic appeals and other post-conviction proceedings. The court may consider ineffective assistance of counsel or prosecutorial misconduct. The state wants to be absolutely certain they are not putting an innocent person to death. Though, I must stress, many innocent people have been put to death.

Furthermore, pharmaceutical companies (with good reason) don't want their drugs being used to kill people, so it's become harder for states to source them. Some have turned to older methods of execution like the firing squad.

In Japan, one of the few other countries that still has capital punishment on the books, the law technically requires the condemned prisoner to be executed within six months of the failure of their final appeal. However, if they request a retrial or pardon, the clock stops. Typically, someone on death row in Japan will be there for five to seven years. One prisoner died of natural causes at 95, after 32 years on death row. One man was exonerated a couple years ago after 58 years on death row. The cruelest thing about capital punishment in Japan is there's no warning -- you wake up one morning and they take you through the process. The prisoner's lawyer and family are not notified until after they've been hanged.

The normal pattern is high temperatures in the Equatorial West Pacific and lower in the East Pacific, leading to convection (hot air rises) and precipitation in the EWP and dry weather in the EEP.  Sometimes it reverses, triggered by weaker trade winds and the warm water flowing eastward.  This ends up changing weather patterns in North and South America also.  These are persistent features that can last for a year or more.

Correct, one of the numbers in the formula is a subjective multiplier that gets modified periodically.

Under ideal conditions, say in a room with no wind speed and 25°C and no humidity, the feels like is literally 25°C because our bodies can expell heat at a certain rate, but if the wind is moving faster around you, then you can expell heat faster, and you will feel colder, or if it is more humid, sweat works less efficiently so you can expell heat slower.  
In reality I dont think wind temperature is that useful to humans for how they should dress/ prepare for the day, same reason 27°C water can feel kind of chilly or touching a piece of metal at 40°C can feel pretty damn hot while a 40°C mug barely feels hot, heat transfer tends to be more important for our experiences

The subjective part of how weather "feels" boils down to "I don't like this" or "I do like this".

When talking about the temperature outside that's not what they mean. 

There are calculations that take into effect humidity which alters the way temperature outside feels because we cool our bodies through sweat and can't do that as well with high humidity. 

It also calculates for windchill, which affects the way our bodies regulate heat, generally, in the other directions so you could be cooling down better than average making the temperature outside feel colder.

It is also kind of fair to take into account that knowing what the temperature outside is is kind of useless without having a subjective frame of reference anyways.

That was one of the worst ... 250,000 people killed... 

It's difficult to comprehend just how destructive it was. This a pretty good documentary on it for anyone interested in it.

Your body cools itself by evaporation the higher the humidity the less evaporation and less your body cools off. This is measurable, "feels like" may not be the best way to describe the effect, but it is real and measurable. Personally I don't like the feels like temp, give me the actual temp and humidity levels, it gives me a much better reference of what the day is going to be. I'll take 95 and low humidity over 85 and extremely high humidity even though the "feels like" temp will be similar.

Let’s say I have 2 lists, List A and List B.

List A has names and addresses. List B has names and Countries.

If I want a 3rd list, List C, vlookup lets me use the common items in both lists, in this case the bends, to return a value for another parameter.

Vertical Lookup.  If you have a multi-column range, you find a value in row \[x\] of the first column of the range and then return the value from some other column in the range at that same row.

Anytime you know one thing about a row and want to know another thing about that same row - that's the use case.

Since the "feels like" is calculating how temperature dynamics work with skin and air, it is objective. But the weird thing about biology is that not everybody has the same sensitivity in their nerve endings or even the same amount of nerve endings. Some people have thicker or fattier skin. Internally we are significantly warmer as well, and people can have varying degrees of internal temps from one and other. What we are cognitively perceiving the temperature to feel like becomes subjective because of all these variables change what our total sense of temperature feels like. So if the temp is -10C and feels like -15C, your outer skin is reacting like that. But if you have thicker or fattier skin, or just a better internally regulated thermal system, you might not even notice the that your skin is responding to 5 degree colder wind chill. Also if you sweat more or less, or are more hydrated or dehydrated, that can also change how you cognitively perceive temperature as well while also adjusting the tolerance range of how your skin is actually responding to it.

It's a phenomenon when the Eastern Pacific Ocean is especially warm. The extra warm wet air from this causes different rain and weather patterns downwind. This affects weather patterns in the western US because our rain mostly originates from this cycle.

And practically, you can use them in formulas. So if you had a table with “product name | quantity sold” you could “xlookup(product name cel )*(quantity sold cell)”,  and get the revenue from each product.

Subjective refers to information, decisions, or perspectives based on personal feelings, tastes, opinions, or interpretations. It contrasts with objective statements, which are based strictly on measurable, verifiable facts and observable data

No it cannot.

Vlookup and hlookup are for data bases. 

Lets say you have two spreadsheets to track widgets you sell. 
Spreadsheet A contains your sales data but the cost per widget is constantly changing and you want to track it live.
Spreadsheet B is a table of cost per all your various widgets.

The lookup functions would say "look at this cell in spreadsheet A", let's say it says apples. Then "go to Spreadsheet B, find "apples" and give me back the cell to the right of it.", which presumably is the cost per apple. 

Now your cost cell in Spreadsheet is always live with the current price for apples. 

I could type over "apples" and replace with "strawberries" and it would automatically return the cost for strawberries instead. 

The lookup function says the coordinates on which cell to return after finding "apples" in Spreadsheet B.

The V and the H part just direct the lookup if the coordinates are Vertical or Horizontal.

If I were to tell you "Holy hell, it feels like 40C degrees in here", then that would be my subjective opinion based on how I perceive the temperature.

If a weather professional says "25C, but feels like 22C", then that is said based on a formula that takes pressure, wind, cloud cover, and so on into account. Basically, "feels like X" is what it would literally feel like if the weather was absolutely perfect, no cloud cover, average pressure, and no wind. Of course, the weather is never really ever that perfect, but it makes it a reasonable metric to use to find out if you should bring a sweater or not.

I have seen many people on reddit assuming life in prison is more expensive. And using that as an argument for the death penalty.

It makes some logical sense that life is prison would be more expensive, specifically if someone doesn’t understand how expensive the appeals process is.

Which means a person must be educated on the facts. Good luck educating the type of people who support the death penalty. Their relationship with facts doesn’t have the best track record.

There's 4 kinds of economies, developed, developing, Japan, and Argentina

Its a lesser version of Xlookup. Both pf witch are excel functions that allow you to look up a defined value(s) in a table and return a corresponding result. As an example, you could 8,000,000 sales records but only want to return those sales of microphones delivered to Ohio. Tjis could do that.

Years of food industry experience.  I've seen enough production lines to know what's likely to cause a problem.

it's the grinding crush of debris that will kill you if you can swim

so much dangerous shit starts floating and unpredictably moving around. cars, sheds, shipping containers, lumber, construction material, etc.

you were given the math formulas and still dared to say it's both. I think you should get off the internet for a bit

It is not false. Have the day you deserve!

There are a few places with "flowerpot conditions" -- flat, below a thin layer of good soil there's clay, which blocks water and also growth of deep roots. These are relatively bad places, only a few wild plants grow there. They must be resistent to rot from standing water and also be able to survive when the soil dries out completely during summer.

Usually these are relatively small places, though. Most of the world is better than your flower pot. Only a few hundred meters/yards away there's  deeper soil or the clay layer isn't that dense and allows deep rooting plants to break through or some slope turns the are into a place which falls dry, but without the standing water. As soon as the conditions change, you'll see more diverse vegetation.

Weather repeats in patterns that are more or less regular. Think about night and day, tides, sea breeze, seasons.

One of this patterns is called el nino and it has an irregular periodicity of few years (2-7 i think) causes are not as clear as the previously mentioned events since the weather is very complex.

If anything, the surface/ crust of the earth is slowly cooling and drawing heat away from the core.

VLOOKUP is much, much older. XLOOKUP does everything VLOOKUP does and is more flexible. Unless you have to work with a much older version of Excel, save yourself some time and sanity and just learn XLOOKUP.

El Niño is a natural climate pattern linked to unusually warm ocean temperatures in the Pacific. It occurs irregularly every two to seven years, typically lasts around one year, and can push global temperatures higher in the year that follows.

Woah, what was that like? I've seen lots of videos, and I understand earthquakes and tsunamis academically because I have a master's in geology, but I've never lived through it.

How about China, where the exchange rate is 1$ to 7 yuan, and where 1$ will buy a bottle of water in America, and 1 yuan will buy a bottle of water in China

Basically, VLOOKUP is an old version of XLOOKUP that doesn't work as well.

XLOOKUP says 'Hey! Take this value, look for it in this column, and then give me the equivalent value in a different column.'

I find humidity to be a multiplier in general. If it's hot and humid, the humidity makes it feel hotter than it really is. If it's gold and humid, it feels even colder than the ambient temperature.

It allows you to lookup a value in another range of data, and is less efficient than index match.

The worst is 10f at 90% humidity. At that temp and humidity it feels like the air is bitingly cold. When I lived in Michigan it got so cold and humid that there were days that there was ice crystals suspended in the air from the frozen water vapor.

Uh…. Google or AI or YouTube this topic.  There are thousands of explanations.  You don’t need Reddit for this.

It was, "If you get hit by a *Volvo*... it doesnt really matter how many sit ups you did that morning"

Just imagining meteorologist on air being like, "I don't know, it's feels like... mmm, maybe 85°F today"

You’d be crushed between the pieces of debris if you tried to hold on and float, this even happens to people outside of tsunamis when they float logs downriver during logging season. If you fall in you’re likely to get crushed between the 2-5 ton logs as they bounce off of each other.

This is the most correct answer I've seen, but also I'd add there's calculations for wind chill as well as for humidity

Your skin doesn’t measure temperature, it measures heat flux. Heat flux usually is directly proportional to the environmental temperature. However, certain factors can speed up (or potentially slow down) heat flux.

When there’s a lot of air flowing, it speeds up the transfer of heat. So on windy days, the heat literally objectively moves faster, and that’s why it feels colder. On windy days the heat is escaping the surface of your skin faster and leaving your skin with less energy.

I am not certain that their “feels like” temperature is the equivalent temperature under normal non windy conditions, but it’s what I would do.

Could you provide some good reading material for the last sentence? Would be a good read…TIA

In fact, unemployment figures are only those on unemployment benefits.

This is completely false and you should not respond in this sub if you don't know anything about the subject.

“Tidal wave” is about how the wave *looks* and *behaves* not what causes it

In the early 2000s, interest rates were low and banks wanted to make more money by issuing mortgages. To do this, they relaxed their standards and offered "subprime mortgages" to people with bad credit or no steady income.

The regulatory groundwork that led to this was laid in the 90's.

Clinton era policy - the CRA - graded banks based on their lending to certain income groups as a way to encourage lending to riskier groups.

Clinton also repealed provisions within Glass-Steagall that led to the creation of 'superbanks' that was relevant to those complex financial instruments they created to sell these bad loans.

A similar thing happened in the production of Frozen. They spent a lot of time in pre-production studying the physical properties of different types of snow. How it sticks, flows, crunches, etc.  
  
Here’s the video:

If even 1 person is found to be exonerated for a capital crime and spared the death penalty, that in of itself is a justification to abolish it entirely.

Quite correct, how silly of me! If OP is still reading, this is due to wind blowing away the envelope of warm air that generally surrounds us exotherms in still environments.

It can be both calculated and subjective. I think standardized is a better word

Nah. He just knows the meme

Investors don't care about job postings. You'll never see an equity analysis that says "this company is growing because they have a lot of job postings in Indeed."

"Feels like" is definitely subjective from one individual to another (thus the never ending battle about the thermostat setting in the office), but not in weather reporting. They have a standardized method for calculating and reporting the "Feels like" temperature. And that method has been updated a few times as more is learned about why it "feels like" a certain temperature

Wind chill and heat index have underlying formulas.

There is a "wet bulb" temperature which is the basis of the feels like measurement.  In general, the more humidity in the air, the harder it is for sweat to evaporate so you'll feel hotter and have more heat stress on the body than the number on the thermometer might indicate.

E.g. 80f with 80% humidity will feel hotter than 80f with 10% humidity.  Or the common saying, "but its a dry heat."

Steel reinforcing is required in the US where it’s earthquake prone. Bricks aren’t generally used in those places, but still get used sometimes for aesthetics.

And yet innocent people have still been executed somehow.......

This is all true, but you also forgot the opposite effect of wind chill. Cold areas will often have a temperature where they say due to wind chill it feels like X degrees Celsius,

Yes, it is subjective. "Feels Like" is calculated using a formula (in most places), but it's just a guess at how things feel to the average person.

But the subjective experience of how you feel is, obviously, subjective. For that reason "feels like" measurements like heat index or wind chill should *always* be used as a general guideline and not some exact value.

I guess my comment also shows when I last watched television 😄

preferences for temperature (subjective) are not the same thing as what it feels like (objective). Feels like 80 is a specific thing. “I like when it’s warm outside” or “it’s too warm for my taste” are subjective, but everyone is experiencing the same 80. 

Like getting a plate of broccoli and saying you like it or don’t. everyone at the table is eating the same broccoli. whether you like it and your dinner date doesn’t, doesnt change the fact that it is, in fact, the same broccoli.

"felt temperature" is a objective value that is calculated in a well defined way, but it takes more than just "the temperature" into account but other factors like wind or humidity.

The reason to do that, that humans are not able to feel a object temperature value, but what we perceive as temperature sense is actually a sense how much heat is leaving or entering our body - which again is highly dependent on a lot of factors. A good example for that is how room temperature metal feels colder than room temperature wood. Both have the same temperature, but a different "feels like" temperature.

The wave itself wouldn't kill you on impact but you would tumble around in it like a washing machine and unless you could somehow get to the surface to breathe you would drown. If you managed to not drown from the wave you'd run a high risk of getting smashed into things at high speed like trees, cars, buildings, etc. which could knock you unconscious or cause you to bleed to death.

There's mathematical formulas for wind chill and humidity. It's not a vibe.

The formal name for this is called "wet-bulb temperature. This adjusts for the humidity interferes with our ability to cool down. This more accurately measures how we experience the temperature.

What the temperature feels like is subjective, but this is still being measured in an objective way.

Things like wind, humidity, whether the sun is out or not change how it feels.

You poll a population for its perception of temperatures and then plot that data and find median/means and modes for each temperature point. Then you figure out how humidity and windchill affects perception of temperature and maybe even learn how the physiological sensation of cold/heat is determined by the skin cells and nervous system and brain that handle that so you now even have a concrete mechanism. Then you factor all of that data into current values for temperature/humidity/wind and you can get a non-subjective data-driven +/- for current conditions and report that to the population at large.

HWHAT the wind is blowin

Yes. It primarily depands on your wind isolation.
But usually you won't be much off by dressing for the "feels like" temperature

The first is a simple measurement of the actual air temperature. The second is an approximation of how the human body is going to experience that temperature, based mostly on the relative humidity. That's because the more humid it is, the harder it is for our body to get rid of waste heat through evaporation. So, in general humid days will feel significantly hotter to us than dry days.

because it's calculated.  
it isn't subjective.

  
here are the formulas, if you're interrested

Yes, but they use a standardized, widely accepted formula for the "feels like".

The unemployment rate has nothing to do with Unemployment Insurance claims.

I don't care how many sit ups you did that morning, you ain't gonna be happy with a yield sign in your spleen. Or something like that lol classic tater.

The number of a currency doesn't make it weak or strong, its movement relative to other currencies does. There is no set/defined amount of currency to have relative to GDP, etc.

Think of a pizza as representation of an economy. Think of currency as slices. You can have a large pizza and cut it into quarters and have large slices or you could cut it into 20 slivers. Same size pizza, but you'd need more slices to feel full. Same thing with currencies relative to their GDP. Japan could issue NewYen tomorrow, each worth 100x what the current Yen is worth and prices would be close to US prices, but it would have no material impact on their economy, they'd just have prices with a decimal.

What matters with currencies is if the Yen:Dollar ratio changes from 100:1 to 120:0 -- that's sign of a weakening currency, as it now costs MORE Yen to get the same amount of dollars.

In the US where over 10% of the population is locked up it’s also business reaping profits same as the defense industry

Hahah this was so well explained. Thank you. Got a laugh out of it as well.

So maybe you've already answered this but how were insurance companies stupid to sign of on these MBS? Usually insurance companies are stingy when it comes to paying out or even taking on new customers. Wouldn't they be the most susceptible to a collapse since the risk for them are so much higher cause the would have to pay out if any one particular layer collapses and defaults.

The unemployment rate excludes people who have been looking for a job for more than a few months

This is completely and obviously false.

I think weak and strong is determined by how it appreciates/depreciates against other currencies over a period of time.

Appreciation and depreciation depends on how desirable that currency is based on various factors such as economic policy, usage across trades, exports, etc. US dollar is used to trade oil, it will stay strong more or less. Richer few keep their wealth in Swiss and thus Swiss franc is always in demand. 

The nominal itself does not exactly represent currency strength.

Yes, OP should watch some of the videos of the Indonesian and Japanese tsunamis.  The water comes flowing in, sometimes fairly fast so the streets look like fast rivers, then fill with debris.  People not sheltered by a strong building (concrete?) are likely to drown if they are inside and the water traps them... or they are swept away in the current full of all sorts of debris, battered and crushed by building material in the flow of the flood.  I recall seeing one video where the streets were so full of debris you could not see the water surface. Presumably you could grab a piece of something floating and maybe survive, but heavy and sharp pieces tumbling around you would be a major hazard.

god this one is so good

oohhh! this really put it into better perspective, thank you for your comment! ╰(*´︶`*)╯♡

look for tsunami videos on YT, there are a few....

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Very short answers, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Off-topic discussion is not allowed at the top level at all, and discouraged elsewhere in the thread.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

So basically mortgage backed securities is a single product combining multiple smaller mortgages. Is it like a guarantee that the banks give out? And I read somewhere about people taking an insurance on it. So that means the insurance companies failed as well if they signed off on these bad debts.

the first indication is the water goes out, like low tide but really fast

you need to run for safety at that point and not stand there thinking it's really pretty; if you don't, then perhaps debris will whack you as the water rushes in

You really should pull your English muffins apart and not have them sliced at all. That gives the correct texture for maximum enjoyment.

In the case of yen vs usd, 1 dollar was 109Y in 2021 and is now 160Y in 2026.

Japan purposefully devalues their currency to increase imports. If I remember correctly the true worth of ¥ is like ¥2: USD 1

In-terior cooled mars from the center.

I drive a Chevrolet movie thee-atre..

You're the one with the right answer. It's more to do with machinery than tops/bottoms. 

Buns are similar, ever notice that when you buy hamburger buns they're always still connected a bit?

You're not wrong, since OP is asking about Japan though, they've got a very real problem in that their currency is not stable Vs other comparable major ones at all.

The yen is down somewhere between 40-50% against the Euro, USD, GBP over the last five years which is great for people using those currencies who want to go there and be tourists, much less so for the people there who have much less international purchasing power. It's affecting Japanese people's ability to purchase food worse than it otherwise would, and even more trivial expenses are being hit.

For a relatively clear example, the Nintendo Switch 2 is getting a price increase in a few months in Europe and the Americas, but the Japanese price increase had to be rushed through and significantly more than in NA/EU because they're dealing with a double whammy of AI price component BS and the considerably struggling currency.

And very likely crushed by debris in the flood

They lived. They scrambled up a steep hillside, but unfortunately you don’t get the shot of the wave destroying everything because they were, ya know, running for their lives.

Yeah except they're the same color. The explanation is wrong.

People often say this, but there’s plenty of bodies of them looking just like a normal creating and crashing wave (but huge) as well. Maybe it depends on the shape of the coastline?

Yeah every time you’re at the beach you can experience that: you just want your feet wet then weeee a wave comes it’s 1inch and you’re already losing balance

And it's worse on the way back out! Bc now that it's pushed all the debris in...now it drags and scrapes everything/body back out.

We still have no idea of the origin of schfifty five. Millenials will tell you it's an arbitrary value of unrelated things being the same, but there's evidence going back to the 1500's of people investigating it's meaning.

 The leading theory was it was so windy that when people tried to pronounce jiggedy jive, the wind would be flapping a person's face so hard it would come out like schfifty five, which then just became shorthand for jiggedy jive, a common term at the time to explain how long your boots had left before you needed a cobbler to repair them.

The bagels I got from Costco didn't come sliced.

clearly, I will die of a heart attack, attempting to run to high ground to save myself long before the water gets there.

I looked it up...needs bigger wood paneling!

I think that movies want you to think that a tsunami is a GIANT wave that sweeps everything aside.  

In reality, it's usually just a creeping flow of water, sometimes strong.... sometimes not... that covers everything and takes everything along with it, flooding as it goes.  

It can depend on several factors - including the strength of the earthquake that caused the tsunami and how close it was to shore.  (As well as the depth...)

Tbf, even inland is a now a harbor whenever a "giant fucking wall of water wave" comes ripping through the grid squares

I can't even imagine the terror

I also want to add that even 6 inches (~15.24 cm) of fast-moving water is enough to knock an adult off of their feet. 

No one has a chance against a wall of water

We all have our moments.

I had a couple that were years-long, I'm not perfect either :P

I think I am applying the definition correctly. Meriam Webster defines complicit as "helping to commit a crime or do wrong in some way". 

Agency is a big deal, to me, when considering whether someone can be considered complicit in an action. I would argue that many people do not have the agency to either change the law or leave the jurisdiction that has the death penalty. 

Words like "complicit" and terms like "funding murder" are strong terms. Technically, yes, taxpayers fund the death sentence, but to hold the entire population "complicit" is a little too far in my view.

It seems to me that the volume of water alone could kill you, like getting hit by a train 

  
Tsunami Hits Tanohata Village, Japan

The tsunami doesn’t really pick one, it just does everything. Drowning, impact, getting launched into a building, getting launched into the ocean, getting launched into another person. It’s very thorough…

💯. Sit loose in the back and make faces at the cars behind you.

The biggest thing that makes it look off is that the yen is basically the Japanese penny.

They have 100 yen stores exactly like the US has dollar stores.

How can a currency be weak in a strong economy? If you have too much of it.

If we added another zero to the end of every bank balance, price tag, paycheck, and paper note, nothing would change. But, the currency would become “weaker”.

Here's the real answer, pretending you are saying this in good faith.

Phones are ALWAYS listening, but that particular circuit is not the same as the normal path used for recording.

The circuit listening for an "activation phrase" is like a security camera. It's got a very small amount of memory, just big enough to keep looking at the last few seconds over and over again to try to find "Hey Siri" or "Hey Google" or whatever. It is constantly overwriting that buffer and this circuit is not designed to be able to *save* or *transmit* the data it is observing. 

It is effectively a switch, and when it hears the phrase it is looking for it pushes the true "record" button. That is when it turns on the circuits that engage your microphone with the parts of your phone that can record, save, and transmit microphone data.

I get not trusting big companies like Apple and Google to be truthful. But there is an entire industry of security researchers out there who would LOVE to catch these two breaking those rules and misusing the microphone in ways they say they don't. It would be the kind of career-defining discovery that'd be a famous paper talked about for the rest of computing history, it would be a case study. There are even people in other countries who would greatly benefit from finding this who are taking phones apart and analyzing them.

So we have to either believe:

* The entire world, including countries who are enemies of the US, has decided to be complicit and take bribes to keep the secret.
* This specific invasion of privacy is not possible.

The truth most people do not want to believe is when advertisers get to look at millions of peoples' worth of data, you are not as unique as you think you are. Insurance companies have known this for a long time because they hire actuaries to do the same kind of analysis to predict how much risk a person represents. 

There are many thousands of people with your job and your background. Thousands of them probably watch similar shows and have similar hobbies. That means all of you received the same stimuli yesterday. Those thousands of you with the same marital situation had the same conversations about the same products and, in the same time frame, viewed the same ads. All of you said "makes u think" with the same intonation. 

## In the end it doesn't matter either way,

If we had regulations that limited how this data could be shared/used, then recording all of your conversations would be less useful. Nobody could make any money off it so it'd only be interesting if, for some reason, an intelligence agency wants to surveil you. 

If we did prove the microphones are live all the time and somehow secretly transmitting data in a way that no security professional on the planet can detect, turning them off would not stop the hundreds of other ways your data is collected and it would do nothing about how that data is traded and sold, so you'd still be getting eerily specific advertisements because you can't stop a thunderstorm with a roll of paper towels.

Yes one point brought up often after Greece’s financial implosion at the start of the 2008 collapse was that the Euro meant that countries could no longer devalue their own currency to encourage exports. So Greece was stuck with a strong currency which left them with fewer levers to speed up economic growth.

In theory yes. But some countries don't be edit from that and the need to trade in dollars which sucks for them. Egypt for example.

To add to this, even when there is an accident and a restraint failed it has never been because the mechanics of the restraint failed, it has Everytime because the person was not within the safety margins for the device, like they were either to big or to small and should not of been allowed to ride in the first place.

Because a weak currency and a huge economy tend to be mutually exclusive. What matters more about determining the strength of an economy is how the currency pair fluctuate over time. I.e. if country A and B both have strong economies and B has a weaker currency compared to A, however both curencies move in lockstep over time, it means the relative strength of both economies are the same. If the currencies start to diverge it means that one country is more favorable hence might mean that country will have a larger economy. 

A weak currency means that exports is more competitive. Imagine countries A, B and C. A and B makes the same good (say they both make cars), and C wants to buy cars from either A or B. Suppose that B has a weaker currency compared to A. Then, it's cheaper for C to buy cars from B because B's currency is cheaper (since it is weaker than A). So, B will have an easier time exporting their goods to C than A.

In general, a weak currency is good for exports (easier to sell to other countries) whereas a strong currency is good for imports (easier/cheaper to buy FROM other countries). A weak/strong currency in and of itself doesn't really indicate the strength of the economy.

"It ain't THAT the wind is blowin', it's WHAT the wind is blowin'"

Yes correct. Sorry. No coffee brain damaged.

What drives down the yen:
- low interest rates
- energy dependence 
- investment in foreign stocks

What drives up the dollar:
- high interest rates
- petrodollar demand
- growing stock market 

In more detail, Japan has a _negative_ interest rate, meaning you lose money when you save it in a bank. As a result, lots of savings are in cash or leave the country to buy foreign stocks.

Once seen as a reserve currency, the yen is not seen as vulnerable to geopolitical shocks due to its energy dependence. Current conflicts in the Middle East have reduced demand for the yen.

At the same time, the conflicts have boosted the dollar because countries have to buy dollars in order to buy oil. In the long term, many oil producers are considering moving off the dollar now because they no longer consider the US reliable.

1 square meter of water

cubic meter.  it's a cubic meter.

Dollars and yen are measures of value. How can 50 degrees centigrade be hotter than 60 degrees Fahrenheit? It is just different ways of measuring the same things.

Single yen isn’t really comparable to single dollar, it’s comparable to cent. But that doesn’t say anything on how “weak” or “strong” it is.

Can confirm this was my experience in the 2004 Tsunami. I was a 200 feet from shore when the wave hit. It reached up to our thighs. Quickly moved to the top floor of our hotel. The water ended up flooding the first floor and part of the second floor (we were beach side so right on the path).

Grateful I’m living in a country where the worst climate disaster would be 1cm hail

Serious question for all those xkcd referencers: Do you guys read these everyday?

We did in the SF Bay Area in the 1990s. You're working for commission. It takes almost no effort to slide a car. If it was in Hunter's Point, a rough neighborhood, we wouldn't. But in say the Castro or safer areas of Oakland, we'd move cars.

Your submission has been removed because it concerns a question about Reddit itself, Reddit's karma, upvotes or drama in another sub. 
Understand that the visible upvote score and actual upvote score are not the same, reddit manipulates the scores for content management, 
and question about votes/karma should be asked in r/help Questions about drama in some other sub should be asked that sub, or in r/subredditdrama or r/theoryofreddit

See also: /coins/ and /r/announcements/comments/5gvd6b/scores_on_posts_are_about_to_start_going_up/

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

If the water rises, it's a tide.  It sometimes it rises instantly... Still a tide.

First time the city would be clean

(I’m JOKING Marseille people rooooh)

This is a very good point.

The Yen is weird because there's no equivalent to pennies in Japan.

So ¥2000 yen is actually roughly equivalent to $20 as a denomination.

The Japanese used to have pennies called **sen** but abandoned them in 1953 due to post-war inflation making them entirely worthless.

Japan also has a unique economy due to various cultural factors. Traditional techniques for getting the economy going like lowering interest rates don't work in Japan because culturally the Japanese save too much money and don't take risks.

Their real-estate market also doesn't act as a savings mechanism the same way North America or Europe does. Houses typically don't last longer than a single generation so they aren't a long term investment.

Culturally speaking their economy has never been the same since the 80s economic crash. The 90s are called the Lost Decade for a reason.

The Japanese also don't tolerate price increases due to inflation. Culturally they see companies raises prices as being greedy, which results in boycotts. So Japan actually tends to see long periods of deflation and stagnation.

There's a saying in economic circles "There's 4 kinds of economies, developed, developing, Japan, and Argentina"

Reminds me of a Ron White Joke about people staying behind during a Hurricane.

Its not THAT the wind is blowin, its WHAT the wind is blowin

Only because that means it's freshly baked

Unexplained fires are a matter for the courts!!

Like on the beach beach? Probably impact first. The impact of thousands of pounds of water hits you and if that doesn't kill you outright, all the air will be knocked from your body and you take an instinctive gasp and drown.

Aaron Parsley’s excellent firsthand account of the Kerr County flash floods describes what happened when a wall of water hit his family’s house. As the entire building crumbled around them, many of them were pinned in place under water by pieces of furniture, the refrigerator, or pieces of the house itself. The line between life or death seemed to come down to whether or not each person could free themselves in time to get to the surface that was suddenly far above them. I imagine many people in the 2004 and 2011 tsunamis faced the same crisis.

Also the nomenclature is deceptive. “Strong” good, “weak” bad. Right? 

No, not at all. The value of your currency going down makes it cheaper for foreigners to buy your stuff, so you sell more, and make more. A currency getting too “strong” can be really bad for economic growth.

It’s drastic movements in either direction that are bad, but once you’re stabilized nobody cares how many zeros are on the bank notes.

complicit 

I don’t think you’re applying the definition correctly.

They are complicit in the sense that their taxes help fund the state and its actions. But “complicit” doesn’t automatically mean they’re bad people, morally wrong, or personally responsible in the same way as the people making or enforcing those decisions.

What you seem to mean is that they aren’t doing anything wrong, or that they aren’t bad people. That’s a separate point, and I’d agree with that. But it doesn’t mean they aren’t complicit.

Very top level - 

If country A has an economy worth 1,000,000 and they use currency A. And their are 1,000,000 A in circulation then each A is worth about 1.

If country B has an economy worth 1,000,000 and uses currency B. And their are 10,000,000 B in circulation then each B is worth 0.1B

If I have A and want B then for 1A i get 10B.

A isnt always better than B. And on the exchange we have equal value so there is no issue.

It doesn't really mater how what the value is relative from to the other, more a reflection on how much money is in circulation.

Yeah people worry about floods as a hazard but always forget the actual flood hazards like debris, sewage, risk of hypothermia and such.

Do you know what a tsunami is? Doesn’t sound like it.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

It can be. Any three points can define a unique circle (i.e. you can't draw two different circles that share three points)

Isn't not understanding something the specific reason this subreddit exists?

Tell me you don’t understand the point of this sub without telling me you don’t understand the point of this sub

Some of the videos of the recent Japanese tsunami make it look that way. Suddenly the ocean is just way higher and it's rushing inland destroying everything in its way below a certain elevation.

What of we considered our primary unit of currency dimes instead of dollars and talked about everything price wise as 290.5 dimes instead of 29.05 dollars?  Or in nickels we'd be spending 581 nickels? 

It doesn't matter. The unit of currency is an arbitrary measurement. No one cares that a yen =\= dollar. It's as arbitrary as comparing it to a dime.

It's not, its a way of saying that you measured it to be x but you a knowledge that you could be off by about this much either way due to the limitations of your methods/tools

Also as the water is only visiting when it leaves it could take you with it.

its like our immune system. It can prevent most infections, but with so many bacteria and viruses out there eventually some sneak through and our body learns how to kill that one

Think of a house. Can you make it impossible to break into that house? The answer is, no, you can’t.
You still need a way to get in and out of the house. Otherwise, it would be useless. As long as that way exists, there will always be a possibility to break into that house, now matter how many locks and safety measures you put on that door. 

Same goes for software, as long as a system can be accessed by the people that are meant to use it, it is not impossible for other people to gain access either.

All you can do is make it harder for them. Put up so many hurdles that the effort is no longer worth it.  
But that only works as long as nobody has found a way to get over or around your hurdles. Once someone found out a way to do that, it’s easy for others to do the same, by just taking the same steps.  
That means, you constantly have to put up new hurdles and close gaps, just for somebody to find another way around your obstacles and then you just keep doing that over and over again.

Sounds 80/90s ska/punk related

Drowning but you also have a very high chance of dying by Blunt Force Trauma as your body is pushed through buildings, cars and trees and everything else in the way.

It's a bit of both though because the sea is incredibly powerful. Tsunamis have insane amounts of energy, and are very very fast.

Yeah the death penalty is exactly what I’m proposing here

Tsunamis aren't some giant wave that slams you, like you are imagining. It is more like a surge of water rushing in, that keeps rushing in. 

The tsunami what sweep you up and push you inland, most likely you would just piled into a bunch of other debris and pushed underwater, or crushed amongst cars, buildings and whatever else is getting swept inland.

Person who doesn't understand something asks about it. Truly, a crime worthy of the death penalty.

And remember, that’s it fighting gravity going uphill. For every crest there’s a trough… all that is later going to draw back into the ocean. 

(Dynamics slightly different, of course, but still.)

I swear that happens to us too. It’s creepy.

Don't be this person

Relative value of currency has more to do with how much of it there is in existence than how strong the corresponding economy is. 

If I print more yen, there is more of it, and thus it is less valuable due to simple supply vs demand.

The original phone hacking didn't require a soldering iron at all. It involved using a toy whistle from a box of Captain Crunch to exploit telephone switches and  let you make free long-distance calls.

You poor, naive fool. Do you really believe that fairy tale that companies are telling you every night?

Let's get one thing straight. Publicly traded companies exist to extract the highest possible goss profit possible. If they can get a product cheaper they won't pass that on, they will just make more money. We saw this during COVID - prices rose in excess of costs and stayed there, even after costs went back down. We saw it again during tariff wars - costs went up with tariffs and stayed there, even when they came back down, and companies reported record profits both quarters.

Cheap labour doesn't produce cheap products, it produces fat profits. The only people who benefit are the 1%.

First off: just because one Yen is worth less than one Dollar doesn’t mean that it’s a weak currency.  Absolute value of individual amounts is somewhat irrelevant here.

What is relevant is how much they change relative to each other, and how often.  A weak currency’s value typically goes down, and changes fairly frequently and erratically.  A strong currency holds value or gains it, and changes are usually small and gradual.

In many countries it isn't and rarely is good bread already sliced in the US. Some like Iceland, most grocery stores have a bread slicer you can put the fresh bread in if you want.

Considering that normal waves can strand minnows occasionally, I'd have to say yes.

You’re suddenly an ingredient in a smoothie

tell me you don't understand money without telling me you don't understand money

In England they’re called American muffins. They were created in the US.

It doesn’t really mean anything. If $1 buys a loaf of bread in America and 1000¥ buys a loaf of bread in Japan, and the exchange rate is $1 to 1000¥ then the relative values of the currencies are the same. 

Movement of one currency against another over time matters, but picking a point in time and saying “this currency is weaker” doesn’t really mean anything much on its own.

If that happens then I imagine Marseille becomes the modern day Atlantis.

Think of it like a pizza. A country's economy is the size of the pizza, and the currency value is how many slices you cut it into.

Japan made a massive pizza, but they decided to cut it into millions of tiny slices (Yen). The US also made a massive pizza, but cut it into fewer, bigger slices (Dollars). Having smaller slices doesn't mean your pizza is small; it just means you chose to divide it differently.

You have limited time to write code, and they have unlimited time to break it

GDP measures the size of an economy (total goods & services produced), while exchange rates measure the relative price of currencies and it is driven by many factors like  (Monetary policy: Japan's ultra-low interest rates make the yen less attractive to hold vs. the dollar aslo the  Purchasing power parity: A "weak" currency makes exports cheaper, boosting GDPso a weak currency can help build a large economy)

We don’t all have real bagel shops

You need better technique. The approach I take is to hold it in my hands like im gonna open a book, and then kinda squeeze from the outside edge, like im trying to separate it from the center first by inflating it. You might have to turn it in your hands a few times, but as you gently squeeze from the sides and turn it, youll notice it start to separate nice and clean with the outside edge being the last to separate.

it is very helpful that oil is traded in dollars

And 90’s, 00’s, 10’s, and 20’s

Unsliced bread is the best thing since sliced bread!

We have those too, in the *bakery* part of some grocery stores. There’s also bagged bagels on the shelf. And grocery stores that don’t have a bakery wont have them fresh.

I have English muffins in the toaster right now. 🙂

English muffins should never be sliced. You should get them whole, poke around the outside with a fork then pull them apart.

You failed English class, didn't you.

Oh wow the speed of that shit! 30s before people were riding their bicycles!

Thanks for the explanation it all makes much more sense

The towns hit in 2011 were smaller fishing villages. So electrified, but not in the major way you’re thinking (I think, haha).

Tsunamis, like hurricanes & tornadoes, sweep up enormous piles of solid debris, which chews away anything it hits. I would think many injuries/fatalities would be from getting hammered by cars/screen doors/air conditioners/Yoda dolls.

Can you elaborate on how the lack of a magnetosphere would cause problems for maintaining an atmosphere on a human timescale? I'm having trouble visualizing a mechanism that would cause the kinds of losses we would actually care about.

Even at the grocery store, they come whole and then you can ask for them to be sliced.

The tide is high, but I'm holdin' on

I'm gonna be your number one, number one

I'm not the kind-a girl who gives up just like that, oh no

ether or--depends on if big hunk of debris hits you before you drowm

Because the hot-spot uses the same chip and antenna as the wi-fi. This equipment can only handle one connection at a time. 
Mobile data uses separate equipment.
You could fit double WiFi equipment in phone to get 2 connections, but that takes money and space in the phone. Theres no incentive to do that, the vast majority of people dont want to pay more and have a larger phone.

Because it is. 

Think about any given beach at sea level on a calm day in between tides. That's 0. Now imagine raising the water 14 meters higher than that, what all would now be under water? 

Disaster movies make them seem like a single wall of water, but real TIDAL wave  is more like the tide coming in. But instead of raising the water level by just a meter or two, and over the course of 6ish hours, it's rising the ride by many meters and in just a minute.

yep, water is very dense, and while it has a relatively low viscosity, at those speeds it is still almost like hitting a wall. Just like when you dive into water flat. Ouch.

A tsunami is more similar to a flash flood than a giant wave. You would most likely die from drowning but you may also just get crushed by debris or a structure collapse.

Whoneeds coffee when you have existential dread?

Well thats like 0.000001% of the data that is sold.

I believe that square is on the 2027 bingo card.

Again, it's a simplification required to make the condensed scale of the example make sense. The ratings agencies gave triple A ratings to securities that DID NOT warrant that rating. This caused investors to be mislead into purchasing what they thought were safe, steady investments but were actually a house of cards ready to collapse. 

You can say it wasn't a "lie," but the truth is the agencies' job is to give investors an accurate representation of the quality of these investments, and by many accounts, they knowingly skewed the ratings higher because it was beneficial to them and their customers to do so. Maybe they didn't know the extent to the damage they were causing, but they weren't providing accurate assessments like they were supposed to.

Your submission has been removed because it concerns, or has been prompted by, a recent or current event. Recent events are a topic not covered in ELI5 under Rule 2.  However, we have established a megathread for current events which can be found pinned to the top of the sub, sort posts by "Hot" if your reddit version cannot see the pinned posts otherwise. You could also consider trying a sub such as /r/news, /r/worldnews, /r/OutOfTheLoop, or /r/NoStupidQuestions. Please make sure to read their rules and their current megathreads (if related).

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

That's just being pedantic.

There is a low powered circuit only capable of detecting a specific sound wave locally. The data is not saved. The data is not transmitted. The data is not analyzed. The sound is not converted to text. It's just testing 'does this soundwave look like "hey siri".'

Yeah that's fairly possible. But also just rocks and seashells and little stuff that cuts you open. Animals that are in terror and bite you.

Oh you got yourself a deal!

Also, wear a life jacket

Are we answering my question or are we having a different conversation? Because you didn’t answer my question.

There are a lot of circuit breakers in the system that will trip and kill power.  Or if the tsunami is big enough it will destroy the power station.  

But electrocution and oceans can be a bit difficult to predict.  When the power line hits the water the power will spread out and rapidly drop.  The area within several meters of a downed line can be fatal.  The exact size and shape of the dangerous area is effected by the currents and salinity of the water.  
More voltage and current will increase the area, low power line will have a significantly smaller danger area.  

The concern is likely to be limited to the edges where the power is coming to the the area.  Once the main line is broken all of the internal areas are no longer a threat.

I FEEL THE IMPACT AS WE COLLIDE

That's awful. I'm glad you got through it but that must have been horrible to watch.

I'm a bit late, I had opened this thread in a tab yesterday, but hadn't gotten around to reading it until today.

First of all, disregard the top answer about poisoned cards shuffled into a playing deck. That in absolutely no way describes the situation. First of all there was no trickery or hiding going on, just "honest" mistakes. Second of all, all the cards were "poisoned".

Now the explanation, which is actually very simply for how complicated people seem to think it was. There were all these mortgages that were high risk. This was known and accepted and accounted for in calculations. Then they combined the (fractional) ownership of a large number of these mortgages into a single financial product, the MBS. This combined product was worth more than the combined individual risky mortgages.

This is the point where your question (justly) arises. Mathematically it shouldn't matter, the expected value of the return of each of the two should be the same, both being the multiplicative product of the total due repayments and the average odds of the borrower repaying. But the fact is that value of investments are assessed not only by the expected average outcome, but also the level of variability, i.e. risk. If you can either invest in something that is guaranteed to give you a 50% return in one year, or something that has equal odds of returning nothing and returning 100% in one year, the first investment is always preferable.

So if instead of buying the debt of one risky borrower you can buy 1% of the debt of 100 risky borrowers, then instead of having a 10% risk of loosing your investment you can just calculate 10 of the 100 borrowers defaulting, essentially getting the same average return with much, much less risk. So any rational investor **would** pay more for this compared to the individual debt.

So that is why the mortgage-backed securities instrument increased value. This logically leads back to the original question of the thread: what caused the 2008 recession? If the mortgage-backed securities didn't increase risk, what was the problem? This is where the concept of correlation enters. Until now we've implicitly implied that the probability of each borrower defaulting was uncorrelated. But the fact is that they very much are not. Yes, they can default for random reasons, having an injury leading to loss of income, or gambling, or alcoholism, etc., etc. But there are also plenty of factors that can cause a systemic response within the set of borrowers. An economic downturn for example. An increase in unemployment would cause a much larger numbers of simultaneous defaults that undermine the value of the MBS. It sounds like this should have been so simple to realize, but the fact is that it's very easy to get caught up in your clever calculations and not think realistically enough.

To summarize, bundling loans of bad borrowers averages out risk, making it more valuable in theory, in practice economy-wide events that aren't averaged out between these borrowers caused the collapse of the MBS instrument.

There were of course many other moving parts that lead to the total collapse of several big banks, but this the story of specifically the mortgage-backed security part.

Can you survive if you swim towards the wave and go through it ?

Were the ratings accurate but just overwhelmingly averaged towards the high end? (ie the bad loans were diluted enough to be theoretically safe as a package)

It’s not the incoming wave that kills you.  It is the retracting wave that drags you back out to the bay/sea that will finish you.   You get beat up and pummeled by all the sticks logs and debris the first logs hits you with then you get sucked out to 150 feet from shore.    

Not fun

Yeah, you gotta ask yourself how many innocent people you're okay with being murdered by the state in order to have a death penalty, because it's never zero.

That’s usually referring to the highest point. It matters because that’s how high you’d need to be at minimum to survive by going up. 

Here’s an example vantage point for what that actually looks like (scrub around):

Reminder as well that when you’re running away from a tsunami, it’s an insane gut check. Either you run far and hope the slope takes you high enough and buying you more time, or you go up a building and hope that you’re somewhere high enough to survive, and it doesn’t collapse from under your feet. It’s a series of judgement calls — do you run an extra 3 minutes to that higher building? Wrong call, and it catches you while you run, or it turns out the building next to you isn’t tall enough.

We see footage from survivors mostly, but we don’t see people who lose that gamble.

I hate loose bottoms

I wonder if dead sharks or other sea creatures are ever found on the street after the water recedes. You’d think that would be inevitable.

Well now on YouTube it’s full of AI slop that mimicks the tsunami like a giant wave

It's not *that* the wind is blowinnng... 

It's *what* the wind is blowing. 

If you get hit with a Volvo...

Best I can do is an ‘80 Chevy Malibu

Its pretty universal. Slicing an English Muffin kinda ruins it.

Because software is always going to have exploits. They have to balance security with not inconveniencing users so much that they switch phones because they are too locked down.

Well that was a joly reading

Because they knew they planned to package these bad mortgages into bundles and seell them to other parties. The goal was not a profitable mortgage in the long run, but to gather as many seemingly good mortgages as possible and then sell them off before the foreclosures began.

Yeah, not to mention the emotional stress from all that labor. The physical stress affecting rowth plates, the hormonal problems from emotional stress, and malnourishment all limit growth and are a result of moving from hunter/gatherer to agricultural lifestyles.

That’s all fine but you still seem to think there was lying involved. The banks and the people buying it knew about the risky investments. The risky investments weren’t inherently the problem.

If you have 8 loans with a 90% chance of being repaid and 2 loans with a 50% chance of being repaid all grouped together, you can come up with a fair price for that with statistical analysis.

The problem was that enough of the 50% loans failing led to the safe loans only being repaid at like 70% instead of 90%, which was a massive problem on the scale of the entire housing market. But you’re caught up on a lie that didn’t happen. Everyone knew the game. They just failed to recognize how interconnected everything was, which caused the safe investments to become less safe.

I want to ask if the guys made it, but I have a bad feeling.

Hurricane ELI5: It’s not that the wind is blowing. It’s what the wind is blowing.

You're not trying hard enough. With sufficient energy you could.

So, if you're too poor to lift yourself out of the situation that you're in and you're stuck paying taxes in a region that has the death penalty, that makes you complicit in murder? 

Sorry, I disagree with the premise of your philosophy here.

when I was a kid, we often used to think of a giant wave crashing into our city.

Actually the carrier was typically the main target. Free long distance calls, or free payphone calls were the common starting place. 

The first chat rooms were hacked conference calls folks would join in on.

Also in the wireless era it was trivial to intercept calls within range.

The only thing that had changed is the phones do more, so the hackers can do more.

If there is a device, somebody is going to make that device do something it wasn't suppose to. Hacking.

Unlike a hurricane or tornado, you can't breath water.

Gov agencies give 90% as the percentage that die of drowning during a tsunami AFAIK.

Oh yes sure it is. Why would a device need constant security updates when they are constantly under attack from hackers trying to steal your personal info. Gee golly I don’t understand. Real head scratcher there.

Good to use up my practice butter slices

There’s almost always a relevant xkcd.

So wait wait wait. I get that, but then why do the news and people talk about like « 14 meters high wave » ?

connect it to Internet and leave it without updates, it would be fine

Not true. While much more rare, there have been exploits that require 0 user action besides being connected to the internet and the only way to remain secure is to install updates that fix those vulnerabilities.

You mean the one from Dexter's Laboratory right? The one the parents drive around.

PROBABLY impact. But not with the water. 

You probably get swept inland and smashed against the first object that didn't get swept away like a building, tree, or car. 

If that doesn't kill you, then drowning because your mangled body can't fight the tide.

This is the most important factor. Plants won't become established in places where conditions aren't right for that particular plant. And if conditions change (if a dry spot bcomes marshy, or a wet spot dries out), some plants will die and other plants will replace them.

It's the same as sunshine. Some plants want lots of Sun. Others prefer the shade. If the amount of sunshine changes, the plants growing there will change, too.

A deli in a grocery store is still a deli.

We're talking about the bags of bagels on the shelves of the grocery store, the kind made in a factory and bagged in the factory and shipped to the store, not the kind made in a store, whatever kind of store it may be.

What is so hard to understand about this?

Assuming you're talking those Thomas's or whatever in a bag, store bought is awful. You have to go to an actual bagel shop to get the good stuff.

It's simple supply and demand while factoring in manufacturing costs.

A cow yields approximately 175 - 200lbs of ground beef.  To out that in perspective, that's 700 - 800 quarter pound burgers.  Meanwhile, that same cow is only going to provide around 12 pounds of filet mignon, which comes out to 6 individual filets weighing 8 oz each.  

The ground beef:filet mignon per pound ratio is about 16.5:1.  This is why ground beef only costs around $8 per pound, while filet mignon is about $24 per pound.  There's way more ground beef than filets.  

There's also "status symbol" pricing that plays a role as well. Filet mignon is seen as something for more affluent people, while ground beef is for the poors to use with their Hamburger Helper or Old El Paso taco seasoning.

Or it'll hit a building with **you**. . .

The "lie" part was meant to be the 5 year old version of the ratings agencies being dishonest about the quality of securities containing bad loans. This comment was obviously very simplified, with the roles of many people/organizations condensed to one party to make it easier to understand.

When simplifying something like a global financial crisis down to a level a 5 year old can understand, some details will be lost, but I think the general idea is there. Banks were giving mortgages to people who would never be able to pay them back, these loans were bundled together, and sold as "safe" investments, and when they failed, it took the whole system down with it. This was the work of many, many people across thousands of businesses and agencies condensed down to two people in my ELI5 explanation.

Add on question: if you have a boat, would it be safest to be on the boat and head out to sea (across/over the tsunami), away from land, debris, buildings, etc. since it sounds mostly like it’s just a rapidly rising tide?

It's a perfectly reasonable question

There were exploits on phones and phone networks with dumb cellphones. People could hack the physical devices and change their identification number and make calls on someone else dime. Before that on land line phones people would hack the phone network to make free calls as well. I'm sure there was some social engineer back in the day that could talk telephone operators into making connections to other lines they weren't supposed to get to or for free.

I think water innundation would zorch out most electrical grid components really fast. Power going into the damage zone would get cut very quickly.

It's funny since people don't like tidal wave because of the inaccuracy and they replaced it with 'tsunami' which makes even less sense since it means 'harbor wave'. At least a tidal wave comes in like a tide.

If you want a 100% unhackable device, you need a brick. 

So first you got the hardware, most of those have their own firmware, including the motherboard itself, which often has a bunch of chips that need their own setups in said firmware. Then theirs the bios which is like a os of its own to run and manage all the base level functions of the pc. From there you have the OS kernal which is the core of the OS, from there you add in dozens and dozens of libraries and small programs to make using the OS easier. Then theirs all the drivers to be able to use the hardware. Many of which add dozens of libraries of their own. By there theres hundreds if not thousands of potential attack vectors just by interactions between them alone. Now add on yhe entire network stack, which has plenty of layers of its own. And any little bug in any of that could break just the right way that lets anyone have anywhere from limited to full root access to the pc. 

Pc security is playing wackamole with 3 square mile field and your on foot.

You mentioned one of the hidden dangers of tsunami. Even if you're a strong swimmer, there's so much debris in the water (cars, pieces of houses, trees, etc) that you're likely to get clobbered or held under by all this stuff churning around.

To quote Ron White talking about surviving a hurricane:

It ain't *THAT* the wind is blowing. . . it's **WHAT** the wind is blowing!

Nice breakdown. 

One minor correction/addition: most cast iron is not hard and brittle, despite its high carbon content. Cooling quickly will create hard and brittle cementite (white cast iron does this), but most cast iron is cooled more slowly to allow graphite (pure C) to form instead. Graphite has very little strength, but is very brittle, which is why pure graphite useful for making pencils. Having graphite in your iron does not contribute to strength though, making cast iron relatively soft and brittle.

There's a lot of reasons.

The short answer is that the code on these devices is so large and complicated that it's basically impossible to make them 100% secure.

There's a lot of very clever people looking for vulnerabilities and they find things the developers never even considered, often years after that particular code was written.

A lot of line developers also aren't particularly security conscious and just ram out mediocre quality code to meet deadlines.

"Just make it work" is often the name of the game, we'll fix it later.

I never saw those footages! I’d be interested if you still remember those videos (in case I’m hit by a tsunami in the middle of France, who knows)

T-800 in the streets, T-1000 in the sheets.

The house always wins 🌊😳

Not even just mistakes. As it's been commonly said in cybersecurity, there is no such thing as a 100% secure system. Any security can be cracked, it just takes time and effort.

Absolutely true. Difference of degrees and what is meant by hacking; dumb-phone hacking usually required a lot more "Okay, now that I've physically splayed this thing open and connected these leads to the RAM control pins..." Shaping a payload was also possible, but frequently the only way to get those payloads into the machine 'legit' was over the air, and the phone carrier controlled that pathway fairly exclusively unless the hacker did a *lot* of work. 

Contrast with "I put malware on the App Store and now I have a bunch of people's home addresses and am mining Bitcoin on their phones."

We have languages that can prevent at least 70% of these security errors, but the overwhelming reaction from C/C++ developer community goes along the lines of "I dont need that shit, that is restricting me, I know better than the compiler". 

So they continue to write unsafe code, because writing safe in C/C++ is not humanly possible on bigger than trivial projects. Human head simply cannot reliably reason about even tens of thousands of lines of code.

for the next 100 meters might kill you before you actually drown.

Several km for the bigger ones. 

Water as a medium is also pretty good about naturally flowing around big stable things after the initial impact, so that most things aren't generally getting crushed. It also is a cushion during most impacts and most things in the water are travelling together without much relative speed.

Getting bonked by a boat doesn't usually outright kill you, but it might knock you out so that you drown. You have to get pretty unlucky with a collapsing building, or getting squished by something heavy like a car or boat or tree hitting something else even heavier. 

I think estimates are that 80-90% of deaths are drownings (trapped in car, trapped in building, pulled along in the rip for more than 20 seconds can be enough to drown.

Today's academic alert. Wiggam, Ralph

use the full name please, but i'm guessing there are usually some english speakers in angkor wat

Ok how about a big log? Giant piece of driftwood?

Heart Attack.

Either from seeing the size of it, or trying to run from it.

RS6, V70 T8, E63S, M5 Touring

You know, the fun stuff

YOUR LOVE CRASHES O-VER,

LIKE A-

T I D A L          
W 🌊VE

Don’t look back, for those behind have been lost to the bay.

And the credit rating agencies weren't punished because they didn't have a rubric to estimate the risk on this and the system didn't account for that. Their risk assessment was based on past performance, past performance was based on housing values going up forever... And part of the Jenga tower that made that true was that banks weren't making stupid loans to high-risk borrowers who would default on their house more often than not. That opened the loop on a closed-loop model and created a situation where the mathematical risk assessments no longer reflected reality... But the law didn't say the rating agencies had to guess at what the future holds outside of what the models said.

Probably a valuable lesson as we careen headlong into the AI era.

Right. Unsliced bread is going to be proper, fresh, bakery bread, not manufactured like the branded sliced loaves. There is a huge difference, but it won't keep as well. 

For anyone interested to learn more there is a good video by culinary youtuber Adam Regusea:

For the most part it has almost nothing to do with devices themselves. You can make a perfectly secure connection, in theory, with limited enough scope (though, smartphones and laptops already don't pass that - their scope is enormous). But their software is based on other software, which is based on other software, which is... you got the idea. There's gigabytes of software, billions of lines of code interacting one with another, and even if your own code resting on top of that scheme is perfect - chances are there's some dependencies with vulnerabilities. It's practically impossible to NOT make a mistake anywhere in billions of lines of code. So, in most cases security updates are to keep those dependencies updated, with latest fixes.

English muffins should definitely be opened with a fork or just hands. I don't always, I'll use a knife just so I'm using one utensil, use same knife for butter/jam/etc. but a knife is frowned upon.

You have a package of largely bad loans that people would be unwilling to buy.  Combine it with a second package of bad loans into a new package and suddenly it's highly rated.

You need better English muffins.

Definitely not a “their family” thing. You’re just doing it wrong.

There’s a bunch of reasons boiling down to convenience. When you have bread, you may take any number of slices out, including just one. You don’t want to tear each individual slice off the loaf, potentially requiring you to remove the loaf from the packaging to get at a single slice to tear off. And sliced bread tends to be much softer and less rigid than bagels and English muffins. Most people can pretty ably and easily tear them in half. Soft bread would be likelier to rip incorrectly.

The sky is -470 degrees F.   The sun is 10000 degrees F.

Between the two is a constantly adjusting balance.   Every thunderstorm and even snowstorm sends a ton of heat out into the upper atmosphere.

The Android kernel (the bit that runs all the apps) on it's own is 15 million lines of code.  It was impossible for all those lines to be 100% correct, even if the design was 100% correct (which is isn't).

In the last few months, advances in AI has highlighted thousands of issues with that code that were unknown to the developers (but some would have been known by hackers).

Previously those fixes were found by humans (and tools built by humans), and was much harder to discover.

Those fixes are what makes updates necessary.

  
Then you have to include all the apps that you put on the phone, which is probably 100x more code than just the kernel.

Devices are hack-able as long as they don't run strictly in read-only mode. You can limit exposure by building the device to work fully offline or keep it always offline (this includes GOS and GSM: messages, phone calls), but then your device is very limited in functionality.

Anything that does anything is effectively fundamentally hack-able. Your question is equivalent to 'why can living organisms get sick'.

Drowning. Watch the videos of the 2011 Japanese tsunami coming in. That completely changed the way I think about tsunamis. I always pictured a 100 ft wave crashing in, but its not like that. Its more like a 10 ft wall that just doesnt stop coming.

You’re either lying or you’ve never bought bagels from the bread section of the store. The major brands like Dempsters or Country Harvest for example are NOT cut all the way through. They leave a point on either side attached.

We were able to hack dumb phones too.

Bread bags are "tighter" to the loaf so it stays loaf shaped and the slices stay in order. This keeps the exposed edges from getting exposed to air and going stale. 

Also, grocery store bread has a (looks up notes) fuck ton of chemicals added to it keep if artificially soft and fluffy and prevent staling. Grocery store bagels are more like bland, pasty bricks of something resembling flour. They don't get the fluffy sandwich bread treatment.

Because people who are bored or have financial interest in hacking systems will take the time to break things. Imagine trying to make an indestructible box, but you still have to make a door for people to get in and out. The box won’t usually get broken, but the door, hinges, and lock won’t be indestructible and still operate.

Because nobody wants that, or at least nobody wants it enough to give the "oooo shiny" of new features, new apps, etc.  

Back in the early days of computers, we had rock solid computers, OSes and software.  They weren't very flashy, but they got the job done...  

But they cost $10,000 instead of $1,000 and other companies -- Microsoft being the big one -- came along and dazzled the consumers with marketing bullshit and constant change.  This turned out to sell a heck of a lot better, so everybody else had to either do the same thing or go out of business.

And that established the norm, and anybody who wants to stay in the market has to compete with that norm, or they go away.

Just to emphasize this, every time this comes up, I try to link the footage from Japan in 2011. NHK has taken down a lot of it, but here’s a low quality surviving snippet:

It’s literally just water that keeps fucking going. So many people misunderstand the “wave” part.

It's not unique at all. Many racquet/ball sports are the same. Table tennis and volleyball to name two.

Sounds like the intro to a 70s porno.

I believe it still is

Are you the T1000 from Terminator 2

A third hinge? In this economy?

I was on the south coast of India for the 2004 boxing day tsunami. I heard it hit the beach, and when I stepped out onto the balcony and saw it my first thought was that the land was sinking. Obviously that makes no sense,  but that's how it seemed. It looked like the entire landmass was sinking into the ocean and the water was rushing over it as it dropped. It was terrifying.

Fortunately the building I was in didn't come down, but I watched while houses and cars and people got swept away. There was nothing anyone could do.

Better hope your adoptive parents keep some dynamite in the basement near the steak fridge.

English muffins are normally called breakfast muffins around my neck of the woods.

This is good to know. I was half expecting to find out it’s an American invention and they’re not available in England.

I'll add something no one else has said.

I'll bet in part it's how they are manufactured.

Bread is a single loaf.  And will be cut just before being inserted into its packaging, most likely at the same process step.

Bagels and muffins are individual.  There's likely no straightforward way to cut 5 or 6 bagels or muffins and then insert them into the packaging without being a right pain.  

So it's for ease of processing.  The ones that are part sliced are just to pacify the numpties that need help slicing bread.

It's one of the ways to define one in a plane (or 2D coordinate space). The canonical one is center and radius (so a point and a scalar), but you can also give three points on the circle's circumference, and any such three points (that aren't in a line) define one unique circle in Euclidean planar geometry.

* Pick two of the points and join them with a line segment. Pick one of the two chosen and join it to the third with another line segment.
* Draw a perpendicular bisector (a line perpendicular to the side that splits the line segment in half) for each of your line segments. Those lines intersect at the center.
* Radius is just distance from that point to one of your original three.

It also depends on how close the beach is to the origination point.  Watch videos of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake tsunami to see a virtual wall of water; compared with the Boxing Day tsunami of December 26, 2004.   Many videos of both are on YouTube.

Not all bagel discussions ( /s)

But when you see a tide go out quickly, run the fuck away!!

It's common enough in the US that grocery stores will sell *bags* of mass produced bagels, so not talking about, like, a bagel shop or a bakery, just a grocery store and buying a 12 pack of plain, shitty bagels. 

Those prepackaged bagels will be cut about 75% of the way through since they are packaged loose in the plastic bag. This makes it easy to cut/tear them apart when you want them but keeps them from getting separated in the bag and giving you mis-matched halves or exposing the cut edges to the air and the bagels getting stale. 

I'm also in a bagel-rich area and I 100% agree if I'm buying bagels at a shop or a bakery they'll come whole or pre-cut if I ask them.

I heard someone compare it to if you were a bug in your washing machine with a bunch of tools thrown in and then turn it on. 

Drowning is secondary to trauma rendering you unconscious or dead on impact.

It is exceedingly common for bagels bought in a plastic sleeve from a grocery store to be partially sliced, regardless of the brand. 

It is so common, in fact, that brands that *do* fully slice them put "fully sliced" on the packaging.

It’s like trying to build a wall that is indestructible, and the people trying to get past the wall can use anything at their disposal to get through.

And now you have to consider cost. How much money should we put into building a single indestructible wall? Especially when you are trying to make a lot of walls and sell them. At a certain point, it’s just not worth it. It’s easier to just buy a new wall when one gets knocked down.

So two factors at play, the bad mortgages (MBS) and the “insurance” CDO’s. 

Think of mortgages as kids on a school yard. And the MBS product as a classroom, out for recess. So many kids are allowed to misbehave (be non payers) before the entire security collapses and everybody needs to go inside. The principal assures you it’s safe and you’ll always have recess, because there’s good kids and bad kids in the class, so recess should always function as normal, but over time they sneak more and more bad kids into the class until suddenly a few good kids have a bad day all at the same time and recess ends early. 

To add to that CDO’s/CDS’s are an insurance product. Think of it like middle schoolers gambling with the elementary schoolers on if they end up forced inside for recess. The odds of it happening are slim, (so they think, they don’t know about all the bad kids getting added to the class) so they get paid a few bucks every week for agreeing to pay off the teacher if the elementary schoolers ever get in trouble. They arn’t really expecting a problem so this seems like a free money deal. 

Well the high schoolers saw the middle schoolers make a bet, and wanted to get in on the action too. So they make a bet, if so many middle schoolers step in to help save the elementary schoolers, they’ll step in to help the middle schoolers. They too see this as free money, cuz not only the elementary schoolers would have to have recess canceled (who could imagine that happening), but then all the middle schoolers would have to step up too. 

It was the layers and layers of gambling and bets used to re-enforce the system, on top of a system that was already being eroded that caused 2008 and the financial system to collapse. Nobody knew how much in debt obligations existed, because everybody has insurance on everybody else’s products. So when one bank failed, it dragged down two others, and so on and so forth.

It depends if the water pushed you in to a fatal impact or if you drown.

Imagine you and I have daily fights. You know I'll bring a gun, so you bring a bulletproof vest.

Next time, you know I'll bring a gun so you bring a bulletproof vest. Except this time I brought a knife. Now you adapt. Then I bring a grenade. Now you adapt. Next I bring a flamethrower. Now you need to adapt to my new weapon, and each time you do I adapt to your defenses.

Hackers find a way around things that manufacturers put in place and nobody else thought of. So each time hackers find a new way in, manufacturers need to come up with a new way to keep them out.

Regardless which side you're on, you cannot plan for every possible solution that the "enemy" might come up with and you need to see what they do so you can find a way to counter it.

Not even just mistakes, either. Any ability to rewrite a line of code related to the machine is a potential opening to be abused, but it’s also required so that you can download apps and videos and such

I think that what is being prevented is actually the opposite. Even though bread being "stale" feels like it has dried out, it's absorption of moisture that causes staleness (which is why toasting can bring a piece of bread back to life).

Is it just me or is this sub just getting flooded with ridiculous questions that an ounce of common sense would answer

And what's "impossible" today, often doesn't *stay* impossible for long.

I had my first really good public chortle reading that. Thank you!

Why does your front door need a lock? Can't you just make it impossible for other people to enter your house?

There is no surefire way to 100% secure a device without making it unusable altogether. If you are allowed to download apps, there's always a chance one of those apps could be designed to run extra code to perform some actions you didn't want (malware). IOS mitigates this risk a lot by only allowing the system to run apps from the official app store since they can inspect those apps for malicious code before they get published. But every now and then a clever developer still manages to slip something in that doesn't get caught. For every safeguard designed, there is always someone out there smart enough to find a way around it.

Everything *is* made to be unhackable.

It’s believed to be from the start.

The issue is that 2 weeks after release, the people who make a living from pulling code apart, or finding bugs in systems have been at work.

They find that if you give this command to the OS and add this character in right here, the OS will handle the command in a certain way that allows you to pull data out.

That gets noticed so the OS company makes changes and sends out a patch so the OS stops handling that command that way, it’s fixed, hole is sealed.

Until a few weeks later the same thing happens and it gets found out if you make a request to a server for with a certain string of digits, it errors out and allows you to pass through and enter the system.

Then the OS company makes changes to the OS, sends out a patch, etc etc… on and on and on forever.

Any system… physical or digital has vulnerabilities that if you treat them a certain way, they act a certain way, and people who are so inclined take advantage of those qualities to their own ends.

Security is always an ever evolving arms race. Manufacturers making changes to eliminate holes, people finding more holes or ways around the fixes, then the manufacturers need to fill more holes

Have you tried writing a Bible-sized book, by hand, without making any spelling mistakes?

That's about what it is like to write bug-free software, and *any* bug could be a starting point for a hack.

Yes,  to a degree, but you need something. 

China advanced quickly in some areas and became large and stable because of nephrite, the harder form of stone that is commonly called jade.

The other type of stone commonly called jade is jadeite, which tends to be prettier and carved easier,  but is not as strong/ hard. 

There's a reason China loves had so much.  It's literally the foundation of the empire.  They didn't *need* iron.  The supremacy of nephrite for many uses was only challenged once proper steel came onto the scene.

Serious "it's not speed that kills you. Suddenly becoming stationary is what kills you" vibes.

Does it mean you could design GPU where you ditch every capability but FLOPs and qualify as supercomputer?

In 2010 the US Department of Defense made a supercomputer out of Playstation 3's.

The Top 500 supercomputer list uses a particular benchmark program, if you could make that run, you could enter their rankings with your GPU thing. If you couldn't, then you could just boast about it being a supercomputer - nobody could stop you. But there isn't any official group who could make the decision, it's not a sport or law, or anything like that.

I'm Australian - in the same situation we'd say "Got to get off a duck!" (as in we have to move our score off 0 (the duck, from duck's egg).

If you make something entirely impossible to get into, then even the owner/intended user can't get in. That, and without alternatives of getting past security features, there's no way of helping if, for example, someone forgets their passwords. 

Compare to a physical building. No lock is truly unable to be bypassed, or there couldn't be a valid key. As long as someone can make a valid key, that process can be copied. Or someone could go in through a window or ventilation. If there's absolutely no way in, all you have is a box, which is limited in usefulness.

Nobody is talking about a specific brand. Every brand of packaged bagels I’ve seen is partially sliced

You’ve never seen anyone pull apart an English muffin without using a knife? You know we’re not talking about normal muffins right? I assure you it’s not just a me thing lol.

I had to do a sanity check here and googled “how to slice an English muffin” and it’s all videos of people doing what I said

A good aside, I guess, but they look/act like a tide that comes in quicker and higher and off-schedule.   The day after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake I was at the mouth of Tomales Bay in California for the day.  We watched the tide go in and out, looking just like the typical tidal process, only it happened four or perhaps five times in less than seven hours.  It looked just like the normal tide I would observe from that vantage, except sped up surreally. 

  
The terrifying videos we've all seen from Japan the day before inform us how different that same ocean swell was experienced closer to the source.  I'd love an explanation for why it was so repetitive here and only one wave-front there.  I'm sure glad they only got that one deadly wall of water, as I'm sure they are as  well.

You're almost correct - it is possible to make something that's basically not needing patches. But then their software development team gets fired. And then they can't charge you every month for those updates. So we enter a cycle of never ending changes and "improvements"  patches that end up causing security holes that need patches too. 

Most patches are not for security holes

Also isn't the tide kind of slow in most places that aren't Cape Bretton?

The crumby “nooks and crannies” surface was even an ad campaign for Thomas’s English Muffins. 70’s or 80’s.

I mean, I live in fucking bagel land (Montreal) and they either come whole or cut in half.

Naah, fishing boats won't be at the beach. If they're on the water the tsunami will pass below them, if they're in a harbour they already are past Amy beaches.

That's exactly how it works. The software controls a semiconductor (an electrically controlled switch with no moving parts) which breaks the circuit. Semiconductors can even partially open and close like a valve.

But the software doesn't just control these switches, it requires them to function. The CPU in your phone contains billions of them.

🎶Sharks on Main Street🎶

my favorite Seger song

Could be both- the moment that wave hits youre just another bot of detritus

what about electrocution or do electrics turn off when damaged

My Costco does this with their bagels. My thinking is that when you make a sandwich using regular sliced bread, any two slices will work. Bagels and english muffins however, have a top and a bottom. Keeping them connected means you can easily grab both halves when you’re ready to use them, even if the bag is jostled and shifted around.

My MIL calls English muffins Thomas’. Like “would you like a Thomas for breakfast?”  

I can’t handle that one lmao

A large part of those security updates is adding to lists of known threats. Since those threats are constantly popping up, you get constant updates. 

Also, imagine all the millions of lines of code necessary for your computer to do what it does. All the ways you store sensitive information, all the ways that info gets accessed and used. all the ways your computer accesses servers that run their own programs. It's like trying to keep shady folks out of a stadium of 100,000 people. You can only do so much to check out each person, one of them could still smuggle something dangerous in.

You can run, you can hide, you can beg, you can pray

I'm sorry, are we back to discovering why sliced bread is *literally the best thing since sliced bread*? I cannot believe that we really are reliving the 1920s again. 

1920s 🤝 2020s
* Global pandemic
* Global recession
* Discovering sliced bread

The only currently known way to make a device unhackable is to make it unusable/non-functional. But folks don't buy bricks to chat on the internet.

The issue is mostly the user. If you were to take a new laptop as is, connect it to Internet and leave it without updates, it would be fine.

But thats not how they are used. The user downloads all sorts of crap, clicks on all sorts of things without thinking etc. Thats where the hacks get access from.

I assume you always buy good bagels from the bakery, not the shitty bagels that might be on the shelf by the bread or in the cooler? Because yeah, bakeries don't preslice your bagels at all. But branded, packaged bagels (e.g., Thomas') are generally sliced from both sides with a little bit in the middle holding them together.

Hackers are numerous and there efforts don't really cost much money. They are in it for fun and profit.

The good guys have to spend a lot of money to hire experts and those experts want vacations and work-life balance. The good guys are always play catch up.

I dunno, I feel like getting dragged through and across everything for the next 100 meters might kill you before you actually drown. So much trash and debris and things both in the water and in the direction you're traveling. Kind of like a tornado or hurricane, the wind doesn't kill you, the stop sign/tree branch flying at 60mph kills you

Can you clear up a thing for me? There's a part about these repackaged loans being rated higher than they should have been that gets brought up too. Where does that fit in?

I have never heard that in my life.

Because that would take a lot longer to develop the product.

The manufacturer prefers to have the product ready sooner, so they can start selling it sooner, and make money sooner.

Software is too complicated. It's impossible to develop software at this scale and see every possible way it could be violated. It would be like knowing the path of every raindrop in a storm. 

Ok, that's a bit of an exaggeration, but it gets the idea across.

It’s so the tops and bottoms match. They’re not always sliced exactly the same way. When I freeze bagels I do this.

Well if you have footage of Mr X holding his gun to Baby Kay's face and pulling the trigger, I put it to you that that is pretty cut and dried. Unless Baby Kay was somehow threatening Mr X in a valid manner? SOmeone builds a bomb, bomb goes off, kills and maims 35 people, you want to try them? Is there a valid reason to place a bomb in a diner on main street other than terrorism?

Security beaches are based on finding and exploiting mistakes that were made when producing the software. 

Your question is essentially, "why don't people just not make mistakes?"

It all boils down to the pastriarchy ultimately.

They can be with a good knife and repetitions.

But then you'll have to eat all the ugly practice bread.

*sharks on Main Street*

/r/bandnames

Not heard or seen of anyone doing it that way, maybe thats just a your family thing

Damn sharks always clogging up traffic when I'm trying to get to work.

Computers are monstrously complex systems. There are so many parts working together in different ways and many millions lines of code. It's just impossible to think of every possible scenario that might give hackers a way to do something they aren't suppose to.

Of course they could do that! Do not connect to internet and do not install anything that wasnt included in phone

English style muffins vs the standard style muffins.

For the low low price of 10,000 ;)

The Siriraj Medical Museum in Thailand has an entire wing dedicated to this.  People die in all the ways during a Tsunami.

Time only moves forward and new attacks become known.

I'd also say that bagels and English muffins tend to be consumed as a pair with a top and a bottom. Leaving a tiny connection keeps the pair together.

Because if it was "impossible to hack" it would also be pretty limited in what it could be used for.

The more things your device can be made to do, the more opportunities there are to get around security controls. It's a cat and mouse game with bad actors and the security teams.

Because they make them changeable at all.

It's not actually *super-*hard to make a machine unhackable... Just make it impossible to change anything about its state. Then there's nothing to hack because you can't change it.

... but users, in their hubris, demand a device they can install stuff on. Which means the "security story" (the detailed analysis that specifies exactly what can be done to the device) balloons in complexity to "Oh, also... Literally any code could be run on this at any time for any reason, so I guess we're predicting what will happen when *an arbitrary list of infinite things* are done on this machine."

I think its the toiling and working hard for long hours during puberty that does it as well tbh. Pretty much everyone I know that was made to work a lot as a kid turned out shorter. There is the overlapping variable that poor people are the ones that make their kids work too tho, so lack of food is usually a factor too. I feel like extended labor or extreme exertion like lifting very heavy weights compacts your growth plates and squishier new bone matrix that is being formed and that results in bones growing denser rather than longer. It also has the same effect as someone that was talking about viral GI tract infections during childhood reducing available nutrition from food, except its just that your maintenance caloric/protein needs surge and the body cant build unless you are in a surplus.

Now I'm wondering if there was a tsunami in Finland...

Yep. They are nothing to do with tides, but “tidal wave” isn’t a bad description for how they often behave. It’s very like a big tide coming in very quickly. 

There’s a lot of water moving and this can move a lot things around easily.

Two reasons.

One is if they're completely sliced apart, they can fall apart on the factory line or in the bag and then you end up with bagel halves in mismatched directions that are harder to deal with. 

The other reason is freshness. Bagels/English Muffins dry out really quickly if exposed to air. Keeping them mostly connected for longer helps them stay fresh longer. 

"Oh ho!", the nitpickers say, "But OTHER breads are sliced all the way through! You must be WRONG!"

No, I'm not. What you didn't think about  is there are lots of different kinds of bread doughs with different consistencies. They create different "textures" of bread and each one has a different shelf life. If you visit a supermarket with a bakery and try out a lot of different breads you'll find:

* Many "hand made" breads are sold as a solid loaf. These breads have a short shelf life and need the protection.
    * Some of those are sold pre-sliced. They have a very short shelf-life and are usually stale/hard within 3-5 days.
* The mass-produced US-style sandwich loaves are sold pre-sliced AND have a longer shelf-life. 
    * But these are made with doughs that are manufactured to stay soft and moist for longer through both protein/fat balance and preservatives.

Yeah it’s a tax writeoff. Everything’s a writeoff for these companies.

Because there are lots of smart people that don't work at these companies, who figure out things the smart people at the companies don't think of.

Because hackers and their technology/methods are always evolving.

Do they speak English in what!?

I am so sick of people defending bagels, but you know whats even worse are the pastries. 

\#AllCrossaintsAreBagels

If they meant some specific brand, they should have asked about that! As it is, this question is based on a false premise as it is vanishingly rare for bagels to be sold partially sliced.

Tsunamis aren't tidal in nature, they are generated by large forces from water displacement, like earthquakes or landslides.

"A bagel slicer"?

You mean a knife?

How do you drown if you can tread water for hours? And find something to grab onto at some point.

Some brands might be fully cut and easily separable (Lender's) but many leave a little bit of a connection between the two halves that you kinda hafta pull apart.

Either that or their local bagel shop, none of which I have. Store bought only around here.

I didn't say it never happens - just that it's not the universal rule OP suggests it is. Partial slicing is some weird thing going on in their area.

"I mean, it's one banana, Michael. What could it cost, $10?"

No one is talking about home made bagels.

You buy a dozen bagels from a bagel shop, they are whole. 

You buy a bagel with a shmear from a bagel shop, of course it's sliced all the way through. 

You buy a package of Thomas's Bagels from the grocery store, they are only partly sliced. This is what OP is asking about.

Bagels and buns are not sliced all the way through because the bagel/bun is a single unit. If they sliced all the way through you'd have loose bottoms and tops floating around in the bag. I want to be able to grab *a* bagel out of the bag, not two slices of bagel.

We call them "blueberry"

My grocery store everything bagels are either not cut at all or are only cut part way.

TIDAL          
W🌊VE

i lived in england and they are still called english muffins there

Most people actually die to predator fish (think sharks) bites, poisonous jelly-fishes stings, and hypernatremia from drinking water.

Ah, my grocery store just sells them in the deli case with the bulkie rolls and whatnot. All sold loose, nothing sliced.

Not all parts of the country have bagel shops. We have to get them at the grocery store in a plastic bag my friend.

If you flub the bagel or english muffin slicing, you can salvage it, but if you flub the bread slicing, your sandwich is significantly worse.

If there's water available, yes.

Atmospheric water generators really only made sense if you're living in a place where you have access to cheap and relatively reliable electricity, and where there are no sources of clean water readily accessible.

As a large-scale solution, I don't think they'll every be really useful. The primary use case I've seen that makes sense if for an off-grid home that doesn't have access to plumbing, can't reasonably dig a well, and uses solar power for electricity. In such a case, you need enough solar panels that there will be periods where you have excess power and nothing to do with it.  Having a water generator that automatically turns on and consumes some of that excess power means it's not wasted, and you can store the water for when you need it.  How well that works out in real life depends on a lot of factors, but that's the idea.

Unrelated but i didn't understand why you mentioned Raid shadow legends, the i re-read the title a little better.
I am so tired lol

Do t forget the sharks on Main Street.

I know what you’re talking about in some prepackaged breads. I think it’s because when you get a six pack of bagels and want to get a bagel you need the top and bottom half together, so they do a pre slice that keeps them together.  Otherwise your bag of 6 bagels would be a bag of 12 half bagels. A load of bread is a single item pre sliced but there isn’t as much pressure that two slices of bread are matched together.

People have also been known to be carried out. Eventually, that water recedes. I remember there was a story awhile back of a survivor being plucked out of the ruins of a house a couple miles off shore post-tsnunami.

Not only pinned. 

You’d get pinned to something, swept back out by the current, and then thrown back into something with even more ferocity and force. 

Repeat this until you die, get rescued, or the tsunami subsides.

Hahahaha....tbh, knew I heard it from a standup, but forgot WHAT standup, so thanks for that....need to rewatch that now....

Bagel slicers are for completely uncut bagels. That little bit they leave on sliced bagels can just be torn, or sliced with a bread knife if you don't like the unevenness.

The grocery store not a bakery or deli. Like a bag of bagels. Franz.

It's a mechanical fault in the machine that cuts them that no one cares enough to fix. One blade on each side as the bagel slides through, but because you don't want the blades hitting each other (obviously), there's a slight gap between them.

As for why they don't use a single blade or cut one side at a time, it's because bagels & muffins are round. A one direction cut spins them and leads to clogs/backups in the production line. If you "fix" that by clamping each bagel one at a time, it slows things down.

not sure as to why reinforcing steel is required for brickwork.

a guide to UK bricks and their uses

Idk dude it’s a technique thing, that’s how it’s meant to be done. If you push a fork through all around the edge you get a similar effect, and might avoid the tearing.

Nah man, just redefine your reference frame and bam, something can not move.

I met a guy in the Thailand tsunami from the early 2000s.  He got pulled out to sea. He said that the biggest issue for him was getting hit with debris.  He got pretty cut up and it took hours for him to get medical care.  Ended up with some nasty infections that hospitalized him for a week or so.

Congratulations! Too bad not all brands fully slice them. Just because you've never seen it doesn't mean it isn't happening...

That's right, they even got a splinter training the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles

The Wagon Queen Family Truckster

*Thank* you. This is the accuracy I expect from ELI5.

A terraformed Mars would always be dependent on human intervention to keep it habitable, but the timescales involved are so long that as long as there's a advanced civilization maintaining it, it wouldn't be an issue. 

It's kind of like worrying about the faces on Mount Rushmore getting eroded away. It is, but any civilization with the tools to carve it in first place should also be able to maintain it indefinitely.

So are English muffins just muffins in England?  And if so what do they call what we call muffins?

Got some liquid nitrogen?

The amount of people in this thread that apparently only ever order bagels at restaurants and have never bought a pack at the store is hilarious.

Canyonero

12 yards long, 2 lanes wide, 65 tons of American Pride!

*Street Fighter 2: Car's Revenge*

If I tried to pull apart a muffin, it would just tear off the sides.

Say ‘what’ one more time, I dare you!

Yeah that makes sense. People forget the US is huge and there's wildly different stuff going on in different places.

To add to this comment... 1 square meter of water is 1 metric ton (about 2200lbs). 

So if you have 1M of surface area, a 1M high wave would push would impart close to 1 ton of force. Hand wavy numbers here. 

Anything less than 1 ton per square meter that didn't crush immediately crush and break would try to float until the water could come into its voids and make it closer to the 1 ton per square metre. This means cars will float initially and be moved quickly. Structures get lifted off their footing and destroyed. Everything gets swept into everything.

And if you do get hit and injured by anything, that's going to significantly increase your chances of drowning, whether you're wounded or unconscious.

Go buy Thomas's bagels then. They are not fully sliced through.

Why then do I have to add more soap? If I leave a soapy sponge for a few hours I have to reload it

The bridge sequence in *Twisters* springs to mind.

lol no shit, I'm not talking about home made bagels

Most people will drown. Others will suffer a bit then drown.

Do people no longer look shit up themselves?  

I guess they consider asking ELI5 "looking it up".

Bread is (at least in the US) pretty consistent, the slices are pretty flat. Bagels and English muffins (English muffins in particular) have that crumby texture, which results in more surface area.

Maybe it's regional, every store that I've bought from in the past in Virginia and Florida never fully cuts them in half in those prepackaged bags

I don't get them from a bagel shop

English muffins are meant to be pulled apart with fingers or a fork. It exposes the nooks and craggy bits that they’re famous for, cutting just makes a flat surface. The bagel thing is just for packaging as far as I know

I won't not agree on your disagree

They're talking about from the store lol

Like with the seats that can go backwards???

What? The bagel slicer is for when they're not sliced at all. You either get them not sliced or you can ask for them to slice them for you, but if you ask them to do that they will cut it all the way.

OK, so instead of car it'll hit you with a fishing boat

I'd like to get splinters from your meat is that possible

One of my city’s abandoned malls was thrbed into advance auto parts store support facility, the other side was remodeled into a BJ’s club; the advance moved out and how half the place is empty. 

Another dying mall is now mostly a hospital/medical outpatient speciality clinic; but the other end stil has a successful Michael’s, tj maxx and a few other things.  But the medical coming really boosted the space bc after that they built up new outparcel buildings and we have some new restaurants there. 

Our third mall is still doing well enough, but lost one of their biggest anchors (sears), and macys had 2 anchor spaces but moved out of one though that one is nowhere near as big as the old sears space.

What? The bagel slicer is for when they're not sliced at all. You either get them not sliced or you can ask for them to slice them for you, but if you ask them to do that they will cut it all the way.

Asa soon as you slice something you create more surfaces exposed to the air. These will quickly dry out and go stale. An unsliced muffin stays fresh longer.

There’s a lot of innocent people sentenced to death.

No, there is not. Less than 50 people a year *in the entire US* are sentenced to death each year (in 2025 it was *23*), and at most a itty bitty fraction of those are even possibly innocent. In most cases when you hear of death sentences being overturned (which always make a big splash) it's on a technicality. The concept of a truly innocent person who did not commit any crime (related to what they were sentenced to death for) essentially *does not exist*. If you think otherwise you have been lied to.

When something is free, **YOU are the product.**   
Porn is a mass psy-op to weaken and de-motivate the population.

You die from the impact.

The force contained in the water of a tsunami is beyond human ability to think of.

When you apply force to something the same amount of force is applied to you. The water is the same. The difference is that the force you can apply to the water is a drop compared to the mass it has to absorb the force with.

Your body's mass and ability to absorb the force the water does to you is miniscule.

Drowning only happens if you get hit by the water after the force in the wave has been sufficiently absorbed by the ground, since the force is distributed along the entire planet. The remaining force will still drag you under.

Convenience. 

Get unsliced bread and cut it yourself, it's so much nicer

Swiftwater rescue certified.

You can die in so many ways.

Strainers- you get pushed against something the water flows through/around, you can't move, and you are drowned.

Impact- water pushes you into something, knocks you out, and you drown.

Broken limb- your arm/leg gets caught in something, but the rest of you keeps going. If you're lucky, it's broken. If you're unlucky, it's amputated. Blood loss, shock immobility, drowning, any number of possibilities. , 

Impaling- something goes into your body.

Hypothermia - you get out of the water, but you're wet. Depending on the circumstances, you may pass away from just being cold and nobody can get to you.

Sepsis- again, you got out of the water. Bitvthat water is filled wihh who knows what. And you have open wounds that was exposed to all that. And medical care is not going to be easy to get.

Dehydration - there's no safe drinking water, any more.  It's salt contaminated. Your next drink vould be days away. 

Disease- see sepsis, but think cholera type disease.

The "not all bagels" argument, while correct, is a common derailing tactic, which pops up every time someone recounts a bad experience with a bagel, or frankly, even mentions bagels in general.

You mean it’s not a big wave, more like the tide coming in quickly — a *tidal wave*

A not very stationary one

Yes, GPUs are in fact being designed with AI processing and Crypto mining mind because of the popularity (and willingness to invest) in such tasks.

This is the only station wagon people should envision anytime someone says station wagon...

Is it normal to buy individual bagels to eat right away? All my life bagels have been something that you buy, not necessarily prepackaged, in bulk and take home and toast at your leisure. Even buying from a bakery where you pick and choose your dozen, I've only ever seen them partially sliced.

I'm in the US and have never, ever encountered this. Either you buy them whole, or if you're getting them with something on it they're fully sliced in half.

Some people feel like it's wrong to kill a person who is ultimately innocent. To help prove that the person is REALLY guilty, people who believed that built a court system that allows a person with a death sentence to mount a TON of legal challenges and delay their execution in case there is some evidence or even political issues that led to an incorrect sentence.

For example, there is a famous murder, "The Yogurt Shop Murders" in Austin, TX. Some people were accused of it and convicted. One received the death penalty. That was in the early 1990s. After a ton of legal challenges, it turns out there were serious problems with the investigation and, oversimplified, police FORCED them to confess. That got them out of jail, but they were still charged and their names weren't cleared until 2009. **It took 20 years to prove they weren't guilty.** If we had fast, efficient executions we'd have killed an innocent man and it's also very likely nobody would've fought so hard to do the work to prove he was innocent. 

Times are changing. A lot of people these days feel it's more important to kill people quickly than make sure you kill the RIGHT people. They don't really care about the 200 people we've found innocent after a death sentence. They don't really care much at all, because they reckon they'll never be speeding on the wrong road late one night, fit a vague description, and be beaten in a jail cell until they confess to a murder then executed for it.

That has some logic, but why is bread sliced all the way then?

It’s like that for the packaging. Saves time from having to worry about tops falling off.

Jokes actually on you, you can get splinters from anything, not just wood

There is one specific video of the Japanese tsunami where these two guys are running under a bridge, I haven’t been able to find it in years, but *that* video is terrifying because the tsunami becomes a 100 ft high “breaking wave”. A tsunami that becomes a breaking wave is fundamentally different than a normal breaking wave— it has so much forward momentum that it pulverizes literally everything in its path. 

If you ended up in one of these spots without being able to find high ground, you get splattered.

Imagine something makes you (and everything/everyone around you) levitate and then hurls you inland at around 30mph until you hit something solid. Also, you’ll keep moving if you’re only hitting semi solid but firmly rooted things like trees, but you’ll certainly feel all those impacts. Don’t forget things like broken glass, wood, and metal floating along with you also at 30mph. In not talking about shattered bottles (although those are certainly there too) but things like half of a full size building window—basically a floating guillotine.

Also, you’re not levitating, it’s turbulent, fast flowing water. So while you will have a tendency to float, you won’t be quite buoyant enough to keep you mouth above the water without exerting effort, so any moment you take to relax from basically a marathon swim is suffocation time.

Nah. This is reddit. We all miss details all the time.

The term supercomputer can mean multiple things, but today it typically refers to a cluster of machines that can run complex tasks in parallel.

What we think of as a supercomputer (from movies) is usually something like a Cray which was common in the 1980s. These were machines purchased by institutions and big businesses for tasks that required heavy processing like nuclear weapons research, cryptanalysis, weather forecasting, and aerodynamics.

They achieved high levels of processing by stacking boards with multiple processors together tightly in a circle with dense liquid cooling.

What they achieved with the Cray was impressive given that the processors of the era were only capable of 80mhz. (Later versions were in the range of 200-500 MHz)

In fact the symbol we use for a supercomputer in network diagrams looks like a Cray.

Modern super computers are actually server farms.

Rooms full of racks of server grade computers with multiple CPUs and GPUs lots of RAM each.

These typically run a Linux type operating system and do distributed parallel processing. The task (like trying to map a blackhole from data, or a simulation of aerodynamics of a Formula 1 car) is programmed into the main controller and the task is subdivided between individual 'nodes' to be processed simultaneously by hundreds of CPUs.

Technically speaking the BitCoin network could be thought of as a super computer as well, distributing crypto functions across a very large number of networked GPUs.

Not in the US, they are left with about a 1/4 of it unsliced. They make and sell bagel slicers for this

Jokes on you it's vinyl with a wood printed pattern on it

The former president of Finland survived the 2004 tsunami by climbing up a utility pole. It can be done, but the odds probably aren't great.

yup - but you won't be there much longer, you will be carried to where the stuff is 😄

or you can drown first or whatever :shrug:

Not in the US, you can actually buy a bagel slicer for this

You mean IMITATION wood paneling along the side.

They are not sliced fully in the packaging

Better nutrition and basic healthcare needs met and prevented. (Doctors, hospitals, vaccines)

Babies tend to grow when they arent hungry or infected with preventable diseases

But you won’t be on the beach very long, because of the moving water, and the second you’re not on the beach there are usually things to pick up

Or is inclusive by default, it's just that it's generally used in a disjunction of mutually exclusive statements.

Drowning is more likely, but impact is also possible if the water it already carrying large debris by the time it reaches you.

The impact of the water itself will not kill you, however, if that's what you're asking.

Oh no not cars, houses, and other things

This is complete nonsense. Whether or not it makes sense morally is not an objective thing, and over many decades there have been many coherent and reasonable arguments both for and against the death penalty. And while that disagreement is an innate property of the issue itself, it 'not making sense' economically is purely a political choice. Plenty of countries have the death penalty and do not have insanely long and expensive appeals processes, making the cost minuscule compared to even a moderate length of imprisonment. 

Note I'm not arguing in favor of the death penalty, it's just this line of argument is just silly. "We made it super expensive so we shouldn't do it" is not compelling or coherent.

I never thought about it that way but I think you're right (as long as it's explicit which one is the center point).

You and a lot of people in this thread are missing a bit. It wasn’t a lie. Everyone knew that some percentage of the loans were risky. The problem was that they assumed the safe loans and the risky loans were independent, that the risky loans failing wouldn’t affect the safe loans, so as long as the safe loans paid out, everything was fine.

The problem was that they weren’t independent. Enough risky loans failing to be paid all at once made the safe loans less safe.

Too many risky loans failing to be paid led to foreclosures by banks, which led to housing prices going down which caused companies and people to get scared and layoffs that caused even people with the “safe” loans to miss payments, which led to more foreclosures and more home prices going down.

Effectively the risky loans made the safe loans less safe, and the banks hadn’t accounted for that (or knew but didn’t care since they sold the loans anyway). But the root cause wasn’t about lying.

Wood floats- I'm using that '89 Roadmaster to ride out the deluge

If you're on the beach, there isn't going to be any of that yet...

In the US, you mean? Because many judges who oppose the death penalty refuse to follow the law, and choose to follow their personal convictions instead. So they approve every extension and appeal that comes across their desk. 

This odd judicial game, where the law says one thing and judges say another, is unique to the US, where many judges are virtually untouchable once they are appointed. In other countries judges are subject to more stringent oversight, and are rarely appointed for life, so laws are applied more consistently. 

In Japan, for instance, the average delay is 6 years, which is a more than reasonable amount of time for appeals to be considered.

I don't know what you're talking about. Where do they not slice them in half? Who is "them"? In my 36 years on earth I've never ordered a bagel that wasn't sliced in half. English muffins are better split in half by hand because it preserves all the little holes but they're still split in half. I'm confused where you're going or where you live that this isn't done.

A tsunami doesn’t usually look like a single really tall wave  - it’s often the whole sea that seems to rise up many metres above the shore level.

If you look up tsunami videos on youtube you can see it’s a gradual (but still relatively quickly) flooding.

So you’re unlikely to be killed by the impact of one single wave, but certainly by being carried away and hit against something, or by having something large swept into you.

For the giant wave variety, you see that more often with landslides in narrower areas with steep elevation, like an inlet with cliffs around it.

There was an event in Alaska where a landslide fell into such an inlet, and the massive amount of rock and earth falling into such a narrow basin caused waves to reach extremely high up the sides of the cliffs.  Definitely much more of a sudden and violent event. 

The direct impact from that kind of wave might certainly kill you on impact.

Yes. If a random floating object  doesn't kill you instantly, you'll drown and or get smashed against something solid, die and then maybe drown if you're not dead enough yet... I dunno I don't make the rules

My prepackaged ones from the grocery store are connected at two points

Unlike most waves, some tsunamis can move at hundreds of miles per hour and can definitely kill on Impact.

I helps keep the inside from drying out. Surface area = places for moisture to escape.

Don't you just need two points to define the origin of the circle and a point on the perimeter, and the third point is to define the plane upon which to draw the circle?

They do slice them all the way through. They wont fit in the toaster otherwise.

Have you ever been hit by a wave? Even just a small one, like less tall than you? They have a huge power, and throw you backwards with a powerful force, even those small waves, and tsunamis are much bigger, so even more powerful. If there's anything hard and/or sharp behind you, you will get crushed. Just because videos look benign doesn't mean it's not carrying a force that can throw humans around like ragdolls. And getting back above the water to breathe when it's throwing you around like that would be hard as well.

In prepackaged bagels I'm assuming.

If you have every played or body surfed at the beach with rough waves, sometimes you get put in the washing machine and get thrown around. 

I imagine a Tsunami is like that but stronger and with debris everywhere. You likely get the wind knocked out of you pretty quickly and any attempt to breathe puts you straight to drowning.

And how many properly convicted people have been executed?

OP said at the beach, so it likely hasn't picked up much debris yet. You'd likely get pinned against something as the water throws your body around like a beach ball.

Yup.  Like a hurricane or tornado, it aint the wind, its what is in it.

YouTuber Thunderf00t has done several videos debunking these "water from the air" products[1]. I say debunking, the idea is real - cool a surface and water from the air will condense on it. That's how dehumidifiers work, and it happens on the cool side of Air Conditioners (AC), and refridgerators getting damp inside. The problems are:

 - in areas with a lot of water in the air, it tends to rain a lot, and you don't need them. Easier and cheaper to collect rainwater.

 - in areas with no rain, the air is very dry (deserts) so there isn't much water to pull out of the air, so they are not a good solution.

 - if they're solar powered, they tend to collect less water than just the rainfall on the solar panels.

 - It's very difficult to keep the water clean. Poorly cleaned AirCon is a risk for Legionnaire's disease and other bugs growing, so they need water treatment complexity and costs as well, to make it safe to drink.

 - Tanker truck rental, fuel, and clean water, are comparatively cheap and yes it's much more economical to fill a large tanker truck and drive it hundreds of miles, than to buy all the equipment and electricity and collect a tanker truck of water from the air and clean it.

Thunderf00t videos:

 - Zero Mass Water: 

 - WaterSeer: 

 - Self-filling water bottle: 

 
This is separate from desalination plants, which use electricity to clean up salty seawater into drinkable freshwater, those are used in dry countries (Middle East) and on boats.

Hey just want to piggyback to provide some follow up information for other readers. You seem really well informed so you probably already know this, but while 'clay' and 'sand' are indeed defined purely based on the size of the size of the grain so they dont specifically refer to any single type of parent rock or mineral type, there is still a general difference between, for example, clays and sands in terms of mineralogy. Most sand is quartz (basically pure silica) because it's a very common, very stable mineral. Quartz doesn't really react with water or break down chemically. Quartz almost never reaches clay sized particles because once the grains get silt sized, most natural processes stop being able to crush them further. Most clay particles are indeed actually a distinct category of minerals whose structure allows them to reach the very tiny size of clay particles. These clay minerals tend to be much more affected by changes in water in the soil.

Bagels are sliced all the way…. I’m not sure what you’re saying here

If you look up tsunami videos on YouTube, you don’t see a wall of water 50 ft high like you see in the movies. You basically see sea level rising very fast and flooding the city. The flooding water starts floating cars and all sorts of debris, and people get caught in the debris, can’t get out, and drown.

With the rear facing back seats? I can only hope

It's nearly all nutrition. Before agriculture, humans were about as tall as we are now. Agriculture gave us a more reliable food source and larger scales of production, but diets were less nutritionally complete.

They aren't usually big tall waves. It's more like the tide coming in but it keeps coming.

Look up some videos from the 2011 tsunami that hit Japan. It’s not really the huge singular wave depicted in movies, it’s more like a huge river starts flowing and rapidly gets higher and stronger very quickly (span of a few minutes). If you don’t die from drowning first you’d probably die from impact with the debris that gets swept away with it.

There are two ways heat creates light 

- heat turns directly to light.  If you stick heat into anything, it will start glowing, with the "color" and visible brightness depending on the temperature.  That's how blacksmith's know how hot metals are, and why light bulbs have a "temperature"rating to describe their color

- heat can cause temporary electrical energy in some molecules, causing them to emit light when they deenergize.  This is similar to how florescent and LED lights work. In flames this can be partly burned fuel or metal atoms

Classy, I hope I get killed by an old Buick Roadmaster

We used to do things right

And the large majority did do what their in there for.

I'm in favor of the death penalty, especially for people who have demonstrated that they can not control themselves in regard to hurting other people.

I'm open to having several barriers to being convicted and being sentenced to death. Lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of high quality evidence that proves you did what they say you did. 

Pretty sure many people will read the above paragraph and are already fixing their face to say "But what about ...". Tell me what your threshold of evidence that must be met, and use that. And if you want to say that all of that can be fabricated, I say if they wanted them dead that badly there are much easier ways.

The movie *The Impossible* demonstrates exactly what happens

Could be either. The surprise is part of the fun of it.

Tsunamis are rarely breaking waves like you’d see in media - typically they’re like a very, very high tide that just keeps rising and pushing into the land.

Deaths come from being trapped underwater, getting hurt by debris, or being caught in currents caused by the flowing water and drowned. There wouldn’t be any single means of death but drowning would be the most common ultimate cause.

No, one of those wagons with the wood paneling along the side.

Remember the most important thing to do during a tsunami is to gain elevation. Don’t try to out run it, climb upwards!!

From thos I've seen they seem like they'd be less dangerous without modern construction. Like I'll see a spot and think "Yup getting to a tree is the ticket", then suddenly a huge vehicle and parts of a roof slams into the tree

Hello Flovilla,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It was an analogy for the reason why people extract from scarce environments

You will get pulled by a strong current of water, similar to a fast flowing river. If you can't swim, then you will likely go under quick. Otherwise you will get pushed through rough terrain. You will get scraped, scratched, punctured, trapped by this rubble. You might bleed out, or drown from getting trapped underwater.

What kind of station wagon? I hope an old Subaru.

It depends on the size, strength and speed if the tsunami.  Killed on impact is super rare.  Most death is from drowning because people get hurt that leads to drowning, they get overwhelmed and submerged leading to panic and drowning or, they get washed out to sea and depending on temperature and distance they drown from exhaustion.  It all depends and I don't know if there is some study that has really answered the percentages.

It’s not water the necessarily crushes you, it’s all the other things the water picks up and swirls around. Very quickly you’ll be in a swirling mass of cars / houses / other heavy things

mostly drowning.

tsunamis are not huge waves that come out of nowhere.

You’re on the right track, but you’re not correct. I’m a fully licensed certified social worker (LCSW) with over a decade of experience in the field working alongside psychologists, licensed professional counselors (LPC), licensed marriage and family therapists (LMFT), etc., so I can help clear up some of this:

\>Social workers get an MSW, therapists get a MA, and the licensing requirements are different. 

MSW social workers can absolutely be therapists. The term “therapist” in the context of mental health is a licensed clinician who provides a diagnosis and psychotherapy to treat mental disorders. But master-level therapists can have several different educational backgrounds including rehab counseling, clinical mental health counseling, counseling psychology, psychology, social work, marriage and family therapy, and so on. The licensing requirements are different, that’s correct, but the differences are smaller than you thing, because they all require a master’s degree, practicum/internship, passing a licensing exam, and then thousands of hours of clinical practice supervised by a fully licensed clinician. 

\>A therapist is a clinical position that often accepts insurance and uses therapeutic techniques to improve a client's emotional wellbeing. A social worker is more focused on practical solutions, helping connect the client with resources, helping them access community and public services, etc. 

Many social workers work in clinical positions doing the exact same thing differently licensed therapists do. Both are interested in finding practical solutions to problems or using therapeutic technique, depending on what the client wants or needs. In clinical settings, there is very little functional difference between a licensed professional counselor and a licensed certified social worker, for example.   
   
\>I believe the therapist-client relationship is protected by confidentiality, while the social worker is not (or is less strict about it, although I could be wrong on that).

While there are limits to HIPAA, social workers are absolutely still bound by privacy laws, because an LCSW working in a clinical setting is every bit as much a therapist as the LPC in the next office. 

But medical social workers, hospice social workers, DHS social workers, macro social workers, and so on are all going to function differently than the clinical social worker. Think of it like this: all master-level social workers \*can\* be therapists, but not all therapists are social workers.

I almost spit my coffee reading this response lol

a lot of comments are really missing the point so let me explain the mathematical derivation of a plane in english 

let’s say you take 2 points and i’m specifically going to ask you to imagine those 2 points as corners of a piece of paper

Tsunamis are such long wave lengths that it is more like the ocean rising and flooding the land before retreating.

People die from drowning, getting swept along and smashed into things, structures collapsing around them, and any number of different horrible fates that can happen when the ocean visits land.

Let me find a tsunami real fast

The tsunami I've seen aren't a massive wave, like you would surf on.  It's basically like a river that keeps moving inland.  There might be some turbulence or other undersea interaction that pulls you under, but once you start hitting the vehicles and buildings, you can get trapped and injured that way.

Drowning on the way in, impact with debris on the way out.

If you've seen videos of tsunamis,  they look fairly benign, more like a swell than a huge, cresting wave.  So you're more likely to drown than be crushed by the water.

Probably a bit from column A and a bit from column B.

More likely to be drowning, it's not so much a giant wave as much as like, suddenly the ocean is suddenly 6 feet higher and you're hopelessly washed away with it.

You'll either drown or be crushed, like the water will lift you up and pin you against a tree and slam a station wagon into you.

Depending on how well you can swim. I would say yes.

depends on the wave and how it hits you, but usually the second one leads to the first

More "Crystallization" diagrams than what people would normally think of when they see "Phase"(solid, liquid, gas with Temp/Pressure), this is Temp/Time at that Temp.

Depends on if you die by drowning or by impact.

If it’s a large tsunami, then most likely, yes.

Hey, I'll have you know you can make a circle in minecraft... all it takes is a code block running 1000 lines of code to precisely deploy 100 armor stands!

explained literally in chem101 in college.
Fire is verb not a now. It's a chemical process happening in that moment.

 A third of its still wood, a third of it is still oxygen, a third of it is those things getting shoved into each other and being reactive... that ambiguity is plasma.

Only some cars have physical overrides that are easily accessible. You may have heard about the manual release that some of the Cybertrucks have (because the charge ports sometimes get stuck due to shitty engineering), but that is hidden under the tailgate cover under some panels, and can't be accessed without a key present. If you think about it, there's a reason they lock that way. They don't want random kids just showing up to stations and pulling all the plugs as a prank. So you can only perform the override if you have a key. Maybe some cars will automatically unlock if the station loses power for long enough, but I can't find that documentation.

Emotions are an important part of how humans function. All human decisions have their root in emotion and moral judgment. To pretend otherwise is dangerous. We should always acknowledge that emotion and judgment as we carefully and logically make decisions. Anti death penalty advocates are just as emotional when they go to extreme lengths to save the lives of monsters because of a misplaced sense of justice.  There are not constitutional issues. The death penalty is legal.  Most of the restrictions in place are either perfectly reasonable to prevent wrongful convictions or execution. But some are overly protective.

Why the heck would you want to do that? Hotspot is for mobile data.

Mars is a lot smaller than Earth so it didn't have as much mass to trap heat in the first place.

There's also the possibility that our Moon is responsible.

Luna formed when a Mars sized object (Theia) collided with Earth early in its formation. This re-liquefied Earth at a critical time and may be the reason our mantle is still so hot and why we have plate tectonics.

It does, but that heat gets transferred to the air and eventually ends up in space.

Volcanoes are also a way for that heat in the mantle to escape.

Your plants are probably in pots and aren't native to the region or in the shelter of a bigger tree

It's harder to find food and water if you live in a desert. 

Funnily enough, taking water from the air doesn't work well in deserts, because deserts are dry, they don't have much water in the air.

So you only need 6.7% carbon for your steel to be this rock-like substance.
Between that 0 and 6.7% there's an incredible range of useful steels

Yeah, I remember the “iron-carbon phase diagram” from materials science class it was all zoomed on this region on the far left side.  Other phase diagrams would show you 0-100, but Fe-C would only go from 0-7.

There are overrides for most charge port locks. There is a way to get them off in case of having to move them during an emergency or when there is a power failure.

Lol

I meant as in completely opposite spectrums of a decision.

Your over thinking the perceived bias

An extreme left or right IS about very strongly in favor for, and very strongly in favor against one or more issues.

This was an explain it like I'm 5 answer.

Love and hate had nothing to do with the decision

Check your comment again, specifically the bits where you said:

"*I HATE ice cream AND anyone who even likes it I'm against, far left...*"

and

"*I LOVE ice cream AND anyone who doesn't like ice cream is a terrible person... far right...*"

There is one exception. EVs with charge ports that are locking. The ports lock on the car side, not the charger side, so there is no admin override that can undo the lock, unless you break into the car itself. You would be unable to move the vehicle without physically cutting cables or damaging the charging booth, and most of them are smart enough not to try something that dangerous.

Its access to high protein and higher calorie food in developing years. I have literally seen this play out since around 2011 in China, its insane. I have been travelling there for work since then on and off, a few trips per year.  When I first started going, I (6'1"), would tower above almost everyone on the Guangzhou subway. When I actually saw someone tall I would be like "holy shit that guy is huge" before getting closer to him and realising he was in fact smaller than me, he just looked massive compared to his compatriots. 

Now, if you go to Southern China, it is entirely not uncommon to see teenagers taller than me. 

Basically the access to high quality foods, probably specifically meat has exploded in the population for people that grew up 2000s onward vs people who grew up prior to that.  Really cool demographic trend to see play out in real time.

guy was convicted of killing his daughter's in a house fire

It’s pretty simple. You can create a standard of evidence for fast tracked cases that makes it impossible to sentence an innocent person to death. Als, the anti death penalty advocates grossly exaggerate the risks of executing an innocent person. They will point to the number of death penalty cases that are “overturned” but almost all of those are due to technicalities not an actual dispute of the facts. An overwhelming majority of death sentences are given to people where the facts are not really in dispute.  Bottom line is…it can easily be done.

Because execution is rather final, you have to make DAMN sure that all the evidence has been seen, any possible angle to appeal the sentence has been explored and exhausted etc.
Its really going to suck and cause you major public objection to the system if you execute the guy then find evidence that proves them innocent a year later.

Not to get too tin foil haty, because I agree with you that they're not recording 100% of the time, but we're at a point where they don't need to always record to get that data. They just need to sample frequently enough to do pattern matching. Which might be a lot less sampling than we assume. The FAA recently taking down their archives because someone was able to extract cockpit audio from a graph of the audio from microphones monitoring the engines comes to mind... And phones will eventually get powerful and efficient enough to do a lot of the processing on the device itself without having to transmit all that data back to their servers.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Medical questions are not allowed on ELI5, and it is a terrible idea to ask for on the internet in general! If you have medical questions, *please see an actual doctor* rather than asking strangers on the internet (Rule 2).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

No, a bubble is just air trapped by the surface tension of the soapy water. Once it pops, the soap just goes back into solution.

So you are saying that ultimately, it is because of goblins?

Many people don't like the idea of legal executions, but they weren't able to get it abilities, so they worked to add more appeals and delays until it became so expensive that the state would usually choose not to execute.

That would make so much sense.

Look it up before calling something bullshit. Just providing extra context/information.

I worked right through that,didnt effect me@ all.

Exactly. You worded it better than I could.

The soap bubbles pop but what happens to the soap? Is it then inert or something?

A circle is not defined by three points.

You could also phrase it as “Americans accepted high-risk mortgages that they couldn’t afford.”

Adrenaline crash, most likely. When you're stressed, cortisol and adrenaline spike to higher levels making you far more alert and killing off any "sleepy" feelings. This is to ensure that in either fight or flight, you're prepared and have the highest chance of survival in either. 

When the adrenaline wears off and the cortisol is gone... your body feels the true extent of exhaustion from the endeavour -- both the stress from whatever was... well stressing you, and the stress on your body from the adrenaline and fighting or fleeing.

Triangle defines a plane yes?

Hello takeatakeatakea,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yes we are.  Just because you don't have a choice where you pay your taxes doesn't absolve you from having funded the murder of innocent people.  The fact is that if you pay taxes to a government entity that is in the business of using the death penalty, then your tax money in part has gone to those executions.  In all likelihood, every entity that does executions has executed at least one innocent person, therefore we as taxpayers have funded the killing of innocents, i.e. murder.

It's a hard truth, but if it bothers you, then be very vocal about being anti-death penalty.  Do what you can to end the practice so that you and your fellow taxpayers are no longer funding the deaths of other people.

or so they say, I am convinced it was for their culinary genious.

They were lying, and then the ratings agencies never checked properly because of cronyism, old boys network, laziness, and the massive push from the W white house to increase home ownership. HUD, FTC, and SEC oversight was also lacking, mostly due to white house priorities at the time. But make no mistake - people from loan officers all the way up to bank CEOs  like Andrew Mozilla were in on the scam. I knew in 2005 when strippers and real estate agents were getting hired as loan officers that something was up. And we can't forget the role that real estate appraisers at the time played as well.

The surface was originally melted, but it has slowly cooled over billions of years to its present condition of a thin, solid crust.    So, its moving in the opposite direction of what your asking.

I believe last year had multiple months where total count of repos beat 2008 peak month.  

Its dire.

And the fact that Earth basically has two planets' worth of core & a huge moon from that collision, which constantly pumps energy into the planet, slowing the heat loss.

Love and hate had nothing to do with the decision I literally used the orientation from the last  survey I took

Lol

And typically for single issue voters has an example 

It does come down to one entire group of people being pro one thing and an entire other group of people being very anti that same thing

The leading theory to the formation of our moon is that early in Earths history, another planet collided with it and ejected material to form our moon.

This collision may have introduced more of the radioactive elements from the other planet and became absorbed by our planets core.

It depends on the technology humanity can access in the (distant) future. If we have the technology to carry enough mass to Mars to create a sizeable atmosphere, then topping it up every few hundred thousand years isn't a big deal. It would constantly weaken, but that happens on the timescale of millions of years.  
  
And even today's technology could put a field generator (with a nuclear power plant to power it) at Mars' L1 point to deflect enough of the charged solar particles that reduce the atmosphere lost to the point where it wouldn't be an issue anymore. Sure, it would be a colossal task, but even today we could do it. (If you are far enough from the planet, even a minor change in the particle's path is enough to fully miss the planet. Once we are at the point to realistically think about bringing enough materials to Mars for an atmosphere, such a magnetic shielding would be child's play.

What he is trying to communicate is pretty clear. 

You are just technically right and it is irrevelant.

Planets form around stars when dust and rock are caught in its orbit

This makes it sound like the dust/rock might just be flying by and get caught by the star, which is not the case.  They were there from the beginning, gravitationally bound, before the star formed.

Hello badusername-jpeg,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The unemployment rate is underreported to keep the illusion that the economy is doing well. The unemployment rate excludes people who have been looking for a job for more than a few months among many other things.

There’s a reason why the victims or victims kin are not the ones decided the punishment. Do you want all punishment to be determined by the victims / kin or just specific crimes?

Very slowly. One of the reasons Mars is the way it is now is because it is so much smaller than the Earth so it cooled down much faster. Aside from the radioactive decay we also think the moon induces some amount of tidal heating inside the Earth, though I don't know how much it contributes. The moon is rather large in relation to the Earth so it's not exactly negligible, but it's not extreme like the tidal heating Io gets from Jupiter.

2 points give you a line segment connecting them, which if you remove the ends also gives you a line going through both points. 

2 different points would give a different segment but could give the same line.

3 points give you a triangle, which is effectively a segment of a plane, so if you remove the boundaries you get a plane. 

3 different points would give a different triangle but could give the same plane.

Bubbles are held together by surface tension, which basically means the water molecules are holding hands to hold the bubbles shape and keeping the soap moist. As the outside of the bubble dries, the water can't hold on anymore so the molecules have to let go (because of evaporation) and the bubble pops, so the soap has to land somewhere, in this case it lands back on the sponge.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

And how is my using Ice cream, putting either side in a poor light? 

"I love <nice thing> so I'm far right"

"I hate <nice thing> so I'm far left"

biased framing.

A rival company can maintain healthy work conditions and benefits, and use the money youre spending on training to offer your trained employees a better salary

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Anecdotes, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Information about a specific or narrow issue (personal problems, private experiences, legal questions, medical inquiries, how-to, relationship advice, etc.) are not allowed on ELI5 (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Information about a specific or narrow issue (personal problems, private experiences, legal questions, medical inquiries, how-to, relationship advice, etc.) are not allowed on ELI5 (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

I work in a lab supporting a chemical plant. We run various samples of process solutions to tell them the chemical makeup of the solution at various points in the process.

Every once in a while someone sees a weird foam on top of the solution and gets the bright idea to sample it and bring it to the lab. “What’s this?”

Air. It’s basically all air. That’s what you brought me. I can’t test this, you just brought me a sample of air.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Loaded questions, **or** ones based on a false premise, are not allowed on ELI5 (Rule 6).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

So how do we determine whats a simple case and whats a complicated case? How do we prevent the government executing innocent people? Do you trust the government to do that? Im not morally against people being killed if they committed a heinous crime but I dont trust the government to not execute falsely convicted people.

That's just a different way of drawing a triangle

The *excellent* movie The Big Short is about this, highly recommend

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Very short answers, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Links without your own explanation or summary are not allowed. A top-level reply should form a complete explanation in itself; please feel free to include links by way of additional context, but they should not be the only thing in your comment.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

**ELI5 focuses on objective explanations. Soapboxing isn't appropriate in this venue.**

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

You seriously think they have a different vanilla ice-product to make the Oreo McFlurry vs the M&M McFlurry?

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* ELI5 requires that you *search the ELI5 subreddit for your topic before posting*.

Please search before submitting.

This question has already been asked on ELI5 multiple times.

If you need help searching, please refer to the Wiki.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

Then why are death row inmates fighting to get sentences commuted? They are not all suicidal and the other prisoners are not looking at them with envy in their eyes as they walk down the green mile.

Not just that, it also fails as a deterrent. California has half the population of the UK, but it has higher per-capita rates of crimes that potentially carry the death penalty.

Vegetables were a scam created by big oligarch so they can eat more meat

Unemployment is counted from those who collect UE, not from who doesn’t have a job

Therapy tends to be for your mind. Social work tends to help if your problems are more of a "society let you down" or you're homeless or a kid with no parents, the social worker can help organise resources for you or get you into programs that you might not have realised were there or the paperwork was too hard to fill out while you're busy experiencing a traumatic existence. Social workers can do a bit of counselling if that's what you need but they can also send you to a Proper Therapist if that would help you more.

That's why OP's title specifies three non-colinear points.

surely it'd come from l'œuf instead of œuf 

putting the L there

I'm not seeing it listed here, but cultural selection also has to play some role in the outcome of genetics. 

As taller/more fit individuals are typically more desirable to mating female populations, they will typically rear more tall children on average than their shorter counterparts, which over many generations would lead to an increase in those taller genes in the larger population.

Bendyness - Word of the Day.

Having made ice cream at home and dove down the rabbit hole, stabilizers are absolutely necessary. You can make ice cream without stabilizers but it will melt super quickly and be very hard and not scoopable. Even small local ice cream parlors use some kind of stabilizer, whether it's Locust bean gum, Guar etc. Without a stabilizer, you get large ice crystals that are crunchy.

Interesting but this is the third plausible theory I have heard so I just don't think we know for sure

The answers so far are acting like you used the soapy sponge and put it away—I think you’re asking about putting soap on a sponge, putting it away and coming back to it, yes? I want to know the answer too! I’ve noticed this and don’t know why it happens! Does the soap just spread out somehow into the sponge and become un-sudsy?

Pleakly from Lilo and Stitch has entered the chat

More food available for everyone, better nutrition in general than 100 years ago. 

Edit: meant to post this as a stand alone comment not a reply

There were bad actors all around - was Countrywide rating their own bundles, rather than having an outside agency do it? Or were they just lying to the rating agencies about what was in the bundles?

US. It's basically tennis slang. It's about context. If you're across the net and the server says 3-4, you would know what this meant because either 1) it's before a new game starts, so it's the set score, 2) it's mid-game, so it means 30-40, and 3) it's mid tiebreak, so it's the tiebreak score. It's casual and kind of just for the people playing. If someone is watching, it might not be clear from a single point, but you can figure it out watching 2 to 3 points. As a spectator watching a casual match with people using this slang I've never been confused by the score (as long as I'm actually paying attention and can hear them). There is enough context that indicates the situation quickly. I understand it seems confusing at first thought, but it's very easy to pick up on when you're playing. If you preferred to not and just said the normal score each time, no one would even notice.

What's interesting is I don't hear people say it much when discussing pro tennis. I wouldn't say "Jannick Sinner won the game at 4-5" talking with someone about a match we watched on TV. I might use the slang when discussing playing my own match, but only if it's a fellow player. If a friend who doesn't play asked, I would not use this slang scoring - I'm lucky if they even understand tenis scoring at all lol. 

It's mostly used by recreational players while playing.

AI for better or worse is just what the field is called, hailing back to the 60s or so. Obviously what people did back then is very different and far less impressive than modern tech.

"AI" in computing should be just taken to mean something "making a computer do something humans do, and which doesn't resolve to some short, mathematically elegant expression". Which in the past included playing chess, and certainly text recognition for OCR.

Because society wants to make really absolutely sure that they don't fuck it up and kill an innocent person.  Except people on death row turn out to be innocent all the time, so they're definitely fucking it up anyway.

What ice cream are you eating that has large ice chunks? Even Great Value brand at Walmart doesn’t have them

Space it out here stealing all my heat

Soap bubbles pop and go back into solution.

But you might notice that that as you do the dishes, the suds also get less and less, even if you are splashing around. That's because the soap molecules get "used up" as they clean dirt away.

Alright boys, put the cancer back.

More than 99.9% of the heat comes from the sun. The fact that it doesn’t cool to near zero kelvin at night is because the soil, water and atmosphere retain a lot of that solar heat, not because the inside of the earth is glowing hot.

It was that a hormone/enzyme was produced when lacking sleep and it would overflow into some of the organs and breaking them down, resulting in death, as far as I remember. But they also spoke about other things that would cause death from lack of sleep in that episode, and the disclaimer that this study only proved it on mice/flies and not humans

I read the last 2 paragraphs in Ryan Gosling's voice

Same place that soap bubbles go when they pop.

Yes, specifically we have those. Both the winch operated crane and the rotator. The boom arm tractor was invented in the US, before that it was only winch pull recovery vehicles.

Soap suds are just thin layers of soapy water around air--very small bubbles. The material collapses into the soap solution.

You could encode the normal with two coordinates (e.g using spherical coordinates) and the distance with the third. It's more abstract, but it's still smooth.

40 is just an abbreviation of forty-five. (Early accounts of tennis scoring use 45, but then it slowly becomes 40 over time.) 

Advantage isn’t real points. It’s the first half of a game point coming out of deuce, and if you lose that serve then you go back “down” to deuce.

Soooo you’re literally saying it’s always listening…. For an activation phrase, so by definition you just admit I’m right. Well played 20iq Sam

Yeah, but that also doesn’t define a triangle, like /u/MurkyLynx8425 said, and are colinear, like OP mentioned. What is this comment??

Some unnecessary parts of infinite size.

Two points is not enough to define a plane. Think of a door with two hinges, it can rotate freely about the line created by those two points. Adding a third fixed point, not along that line, would stop the door from freely rotating. 

Those three points do also define a triangle, which is the only shape guaranteed to be coplanar. Thats why triangles are used to render 3d objects for video games. A triangle will always be perfectly flat, a property necessary to calculate shading

Mars is significantly smaller than earth, and has a higher mass-to-surface-area ratio. That ratio is critical in determining the rate of thermal escape, so Mars cooled faster.

Mars is, again, smaller and that size difference also means that it has a lower gravity. That lower gravity means the core isn't being compressed nearly as much, so Mars' core probably wasn't as hot as Earth's when they finished coalescing.

There is a decent chance (no evidence *yet*) that the Martian core also is lower in radioactive elements than the Earth's core, and we know that radioactivity is a contributing factor in the temperature of Earth's core.

 There are probably other factors that we're not yet aware of, but those are the biggest ones.

Most of it, but not all, we say practically, but the surface wouldn't be zero kelvin without the sun, we just need to dig a little before things start to heat up really fast.

Smoking tobacco maybe, but wood and then coal fires were common through all time. The constant particulate matter, especially in cities, were always there.

Better nutrition.  Regular meals are a lot more reliable nowadays than they were, plus the foods we eat are just more nutritious in general, we have access to more nutrients, etc.

Running takes a lot more effort but isn’t that much faster

I learned about this from the quite amusing book "Moonwalking with Einstein", and I can still remember bits and pieces of the two example lists in that book, even if it's been more than ten years. I occasionally use the memory palace trick, along with combining 3-4 items in a deliberately ridiculous manner, for shopping lists.

There are people who will argue that the thing they learned 30 years ago in school are so important and everyone should do them because it's the RIGHT and SENSIBLE thing to do, but the fact is that you're right. Everyone does it, there aren't all of these issues left and right. It's fine.

Looking at the overturn rates for people convicted of capital crimes combined with what lethal injection entails was enough to change my opinion on the death penalty. I went from hard core pro death penalty to being a vocal abolitionist. When I learned about the simple cost as well I only became more convinced death penalty isn’t practical in addition to being unbelievably inhumane.

If you kill someone, you can't take it back if they are innocent.  So you really really really want the to make sure the person is guilty before you kill them.

What the fuck are you even talking about lol

Regardless of whether we're talking about dosage or dilution, 

Well arguing one is not relevant and the other relevant.... and the one i replied to where arguing the wrong one... Which is kinda important. 

Just keeping your mouth shut when you don't understand something... fuck yeah! 

lol, you should really take that advice.

If someone was misinterpreting life expectancy, wouldn't they say ALL people died by 35, or whatever the number was at the time?

If I'm reading correctly on google, average life expectancy was 30 in 1800, so it's entirely possible for half of all people to die by 35

Tha would be a charge the does not follow safety regulations for electric devices.

It is not uncommon that crap chargers and other electronic devices are badly design, used low quality components that are based and as a result can be deadly.

It actually boggles my mind someone will trust the parking pall in an automatic transmission to hold a multi-ton vehicle in place without breaking.

And yet, millions do, and how often DOES it fail? Those pawls are built for this these days. 

I use the news filter for stuff like this, or in this case, something like a PSA filter - do cars have big stickers reminding people to use the parking brake? Are there routine reminders on sloped streets? Is the government, or are insurance companies, paying for ads reminding us to do the thing? 

They do this for not texting and driving, or checking blind spots, or not getting scammed on the internet. All things that routinely happen. But they don't have giant signs in my town, even when there's a slope. I'm sure SOME places have them, but it's not common enough to remind people regularly in general.

This was a badass explanation. Very intuitive.

This is one of the big reasons trying to inhabit mars is a terrible idea. Mars will never again have any sort of atmosphere. The lack of a magnetosphere makes it simply impossible.

How tall was the mailman?

Here is an excellent podcast that tells the story in a ELI5 manner: 

It’s coming up on 20 years old, but was so good, I remember it to this day.

Absolutely not. 

Imagine the outright chaos that would cause. 

First of all, you'd have the fact that you'd need so so so so many more driving instructors. 

Secondly, keep in mind that we ALL break all kinds of driving rules, constantly. A rolling stop at a 4-way intersection that's open in all directions. Not coming to a complete stop when turning right on red. 1km/h over the speed limit. Plus the completely arbitrary traffic stop for "unsafe driving". Now, the penalty isn't $200, it's close to 40 hours, or a full week, of instruction. So now EVERYONE is more paranoid about coming to a FULL stop than anything else. 

There are 4 way stops around here that flow only because people will often pull up to the line and just barely stop before driving again. If every single car came to a full stop and muttered the words "I have stopped" as we were taught to do so in driving class, you'd back up traffic into the next town. 

Next up, if I get a ticket for speeding, even 20 over, it's probably $200. I'll just fuckin' pay. But if it's 40 hours of lost time at work or away from my family, I'm gonna take it to court to dispute it. So now the courts are also backed up. 

Also, it's not like I don't know that speeding is illegal or that I did a technically illegal U turn to avoid going onto a highway for 2km. Putting me back in driver's ed isn't going to make me a better driver, it checks whether I can drive well for a half hour's exam. 

So all this does is cause logjams in traffic, court, and among driving schools, without actually making the roads safer.

Or they just open a claim with the insurance company.

The same can be said for a circle/arc vs a triangle. Defined by 3 points and defines a plane.

only if the points do not sit on the same line.

0,0  -  1,0 - 2,0

does not define a plane as far as I know.

a plane is I think defined by a line + 1 point not on that line. 

similarly a line is only a line if the 2 points are not the same. this may sound trite but when you do projections from 3d to 2d , this is something that can happen. you could call it a line of length 0, but most of the properties of lines don't apply to 0-length lines. (parallelism for instance).

Gimme the strongest thing you got. On second thought, gimme a Black Russian.

If half of everyone died at the age of 5, that still means half of everyone died by 35 though? The given scenario fits his point perfectly.

You directly mentioned life expectancy, and even utilized it incorrectly due to your smugness

WHAT!!?? You're telling me, all this time, I've been playing an unrealistic game!?

What's next? Trees can't float in the air?

They don’t care if they do, it’s not their problem

Practically all heat in the atmosphere comes from the sun, not from the earth’s core.

Yeah I don't know. There must be something else going on in these cases. A normal phone charger shouldn't be delivering enough voltage to be deadly. Maybe these were faulty or counterfeit chargers that were leaking high voltage into the charging cord?

Legal language uses English (or whatever your local language is) words but is also a language of its own. Words you know may have different meanings in a legal document.

Legal documents are also meant to be very clear and precise. It’s confusing to read when the document refers to other parts of itself, but that also removes doubt. Whatever is said in “paragraph x” is used and referred to in the same way through the whole document, so there can never be any doubt about its meaning.

_Hey, psst, wanna buy my neighbour’s name and address?_

Essentially, that, but on a larger scale. If it’s legal it’s posted on official listings, and if not it’s posted on dark web forums.

This has been asked and settled hundreds of times. It does not work like that. A separate chip processes activation phrases and then turns on the rest of the system. That chip cannot parse human speech. It’s just looking for specific sound wave patterns.

Assuming a legit conviction, "throw them in a hole forever" is considerably less moral than a death sentence. People shouldn't live in cages.

While it does decrease, there are also internal heat sources from radioactive decay and tidal heating, these heat sources do get weaker over time as more radioisotopes have decayed, and Earth's rotation slows.

Why did Mars cool down so much quicker? Or wasn't it as hot to begin with?

The difference is in materials and their purposes in masonry.

Mortar is like structural glue, it bonds and binds the tile/bricks to each other or a surface, like the the floor or walls. Its doing "the work" here.

Grout is more like a crack-filler. It doesnt serve a structural purpose, it just looks nice and makes a cleaner surface to prevent water and stuff from going where you dont want it.

In tiling you usually dont see the mortar because its under the tiles, but it can absolutely be a thick layer depending on the strength required, we call that a "mud bed".

In brick walls you're seeing the mortar head in, so it looks thicker and noticeable.

The thin joints between tiles are just filled with grout (again, not mortar) as a crack filler for aeathetics and preventing water damage.

Brick walls dont usually get a grout layer so your not comparing apples to apples. You're comparing mortar to grout. 

However sometimes a mason WILL go back and apply a grout later to bricks in some applications giving a tight, clean tile like look. This is common when the bricks arent structural. For example you can get thin sheets of "bricks veneer" that are essentially just wall tiles, they get mortared to the building and then grouted like tiles between the cracks. Again, this is because they arent a structural element, they are just pretty siding.

Why 40 for 3 points? And what about advantage? You would earn 75 then.

That's not how it works. They have chip/software just to match accoustic pattern. When it match hey siri/hey google it then active the recording chip/software.

If your recording is active 24/7 and keep sending data back n forth to google cloud your battery will die in minutes.

They use a rollback.  Winch cars up.  Tilt hard, shake them down.  Tires scrub both ways.  Damage is minor.

Its not so much your information they sell but moreso the access to you that they sell, so they can target you for ads.

It's required in some jurisdictions to pass the exam, but it's definitely not required to drive in most places. Also, a LOT of this kind of stuff comes from a time when parking brakes, and cars in general, were more prone to routine failure. Cars these days are incredibly well engineered, even the crappy ones, and material science has come a LONG way since a lot of these rules came into place. Ford has a lab where they literally have a gas pedal being pressed over and over again, 24/7, to failure. 

I'm sure that in hilly areas, sometimes a parking brake fails, but I suspect with a modern car, it's simply not an issue anymore.

Hummus is made of garbanzo beans

Well, I don't know about you, but I plan on undergoing nuclear fission before that. Or fusion. Either is fine.

More, cheaper, safer food and safer drinking water leading to fewer intestinal parasites.

Iron is Metal
Under microscope, metal is like crystals 
Crystal structure is neat, organized
When crystal structure breaks, it breaks all long the neat organized lines
Breaking along the neat lines == weak metal

Add carbon to Iron to get steel
steel still mostly Iron == mostly crystal structure
Except, carbon acts like "rebar", or "reinforcement"
Rather than breaking along the neat organized line, instead break until the carbon "rebar"
Not breaking along the neat lines because forces encounter rebar == strong metal

Add more carbon to steel to get high carbon steel
Now, too much "rebar" and not enough "crystal"
Rather than resisting breaks due to a little rebar, breaks can happen really easily because of too much rebar
rebar needs crystal in-between in order to actually be useful, otherwise, it is just rebar next to rebar
Breaking because of too much reinforcement and not enough crystal == weak metal

“I’ll be here” is not the same as “the atoms that make up my body will still exist on this planet.”

And then I saw the video of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev putting a bomb next to an 8 year old boy

The fact that you had an emotional response to a crime is a shitty reasoning to hang policy on, especially when people's lives are on the line. Stuff like this makes death penalty advocates largely come across as people unable to handle their emotions and look at these things with a level head.

But what about the simple ones? There is no confusion or debate about if he committed the crime.

 Who gets to decide that though? Besides the obvious constitutional issues, do you trust the government with the power to declare some crimes are "obvious" so they don't have to go through as much process to kill someone?

Ish. 

Generally, if you borrow money and put down collateral, the other side's interest is only up to the value of the loan remaining. So, if you buy a $100 000 car and stop paying with $1000 left owing, the bank can repo the car, but legally have to sell it for as much as they can, and they only get $1000 from the sale plus fees (obviously a crazy example)

So they go get the Beamer, sell it for $50k, and they have to give you $49 000 or whatever. But if the car is damaged and they can only sell it for $20k... they don't care. It's not their money. Sure, you could take them to court for negligence, but THAT is where the insolvency issue kicks in. 

So basically, the person handling the car has no reason to give a shit because the person paying them has no reason to give a shit.

A set of 3 points defines a unique triangle. There are infinitely many sets of 3 points that define the same plane.

Heat from the earth's core averages 0.082 watts per square meter.  This compares to sunlight which averages about 1350 watts per square meter (about 16,000 time more from sunlight that internal heat loss).

And it all evaporates into space.

This is what I'm referring to. If I put it in my mouth, will I get electrocuted?

Just wanna add on the first type of diarrhea can be mucous heavy too. I’ve pooped what looks like poop covered petroleum jelly and it just floats there

To build the equation with points located on the plane itself, you need three points (9 coordinates).  
To build it with the equidistant points, you can build the equation with two points (6 coordinates).

"We'll be here, except for any of the actual meaning of that phrase"

Depends on your jurisdiction and regulations on healthcare, licensing and professions. Therapists provide mental health therapy. In different places, different qualifications are required to be able to meet the licensing requirements. Social workers broadly deal with social support systems around the individual and population needs. In some places a degree in social work with additional education is sufficient for therapy license. In others it is not.

There's a shortage of good jobs with great managers for exactly the same reason as why there are awful jobs with crap managers. People quit bad jobs. The newest guy on our team has been there 7 years.

You say that and I've had the primary restraint fail at six flags on one of the upside down pirate ship rides.

Only the secondary seatbelt that clips in to the shoulder bars saved my life.

It sounds like your against cars. Lol

You give walmart your phone number for their loyalty program

A hacker gets into their computer and takes the phone number

Hacker sells your number to internet scammer

Internet scammer uses your phone number for criminal purposes

But that’s the only rational explanation of why I would give you those three points instead of 3 different ones.

There is no rational assumption of which plane is being defined by only 2 points.  There are at least 3 possibilities that are all equally probable.  It can be assumed the plane is normal to the A-B vector, but does the plane intersect A, B, or some imaginary point halfway between A and B?  There’s no way to know unless you agree ahead of time how you’re going to define it.

The difference between 0.2 and 2 is 10x.

Also your calculation is off for 1 to 500 ratio because iron weights 55 and carbon 12, so it's more like 1 to 2000 at 0.2%.

My mother's parents were both under 5'6" and their children (male and female) were all over 6'.  

Turns out that growing up on stuggling farms during the Great Depression wasn't great for their growth.

Your phone is ALWAYS listening, that’s how it knows when you say “hey Siri” to toggle command prompts. The mic has to always be on

It shuts the connection down.

When the battery is charged, it's voltage is higher. A lipo battery is considered fully charged when it reaches around 4 volts (you can see the nominal voltage is 3.7 on the label). There's a part of the circuit sensing the battery voltage and it cuts the input at a certain threshold.

When a lipo battery is discharged it's voltage is closer to 3.2 iirc, at that point, the discharge protection kicks in, cutting power exiting the battery.

Most driveways are sloped enough for your car to roll away.

There's something called "epigenetics", which I don't fully understand, but from what I gather it's a modification of how the same genes are actually expressed. Epigenetics are also passed on, but they can be affected during life.   
The evolutionary explanation is something like someone growing up hungry. Their epigenetics change over their lifetime, allowing them to survive better, at some other cost, like reduced muscle development or something. When this person has children, the children's epigenetics will already be affected, meaning they'll be born with this epigenetic advantage.   
   
With better food and healthcare, not only do we just have more resources to grow taller, but our epigenetics change from one generation to the next, meaning our children are able to use those same resources to grown taller than us.

All of this is extremely simplified and a little bit wrong, but the core idea is that if genetics are the blueprint, epigenetics are notes in the margins that can be written, erased, or tweaked over time.

Here's a paper about the impact epigenetics have on adult human height:

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Straightforward or factual queries are not allowed on ELI5. ELI5 is meant for simplifying complex concepts (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message before taking action.**

Your thread has been removed for requesting a “how to” or instructional.  Please familiarize yourself with the rules, and try a how to related subreddit. 

Good luck!

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #1 of ELI5 is to *be civil*.

Breaking rule 1 is not tolerated.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #1 of ELI5 is to *be civil*.

Breaking rule 1 is not tolerated.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

Because it was more consistent, and allowed a larger population on the same land.

Yeah our leading idea on the actions of my brother are that life out here is hard, and life inside is three meals and structure. Time outside is when he gets all his pokies done, then back in for another stint of food and roof.

So we’re good then. Phew. I thought the compass on my watch was gonna stop working.

Yes and I hate a lot of felony murder cases. I work in a prosecutor’s office so I know the ins and outs of cases. So many times, a person picks the wrong friend to hang out with on the wrong day and suddenly that person is a murderer.

Hello Stunning-Sea9241,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Sorry if im stupid but why did humans switch to agriculture if the food was worse?

proper equipment does some heavy lifting here.

sometimes you need to simply lift the car.

(but ofc talented ppl can do miracles with standard gear.)

It also doesn't deflect much and is stable across temperatures experienced by humans. This makes it really useful for those surfaces you mentioned, such as the "table" in "table saw" which helps ensure a durable surface that stays square to the blade.

The extra density (weight) of cast iron compared to other common metals such as aluminum is also a benefit: it means its inertia helps resist motion. One of the last things you want is to be working with a stationary tool that binds up in use and is no longer stationary because the energy of a saw blade, bit on a drill press or mill, or a lathe needs to go somewhere. That can be quite dangerous to the tool's operator.

Well then just enter some words into google like "effects of smoking during pregnancy"

There's plenty of sources that at least show a relation between smoking and baby size

There's also sources that point towards more long term effects, but those obviously have trouble relating height specifically to smoking
As there is lots of overlap with other factors like nutrition and genetics.

Im sure you understand that not every smoker gets lung cancer, so i assume smoking doesnt affect the growth of every child
But there's certainly reason to believe smoking during pregnancy has an effect on future growth

The size/shape of what you're making matters a lot. A huge diamond made into a blade (sorry Minecraft fans) would be fragile, because a long, thin shape like a sword makes being hard and brittle a liability.

You said:

" half of ALL people died by 35, for basically ever "

But that isn't true. The only reason someone could believe this is if they misinterpret what life expectancy and mortality figures mean.

The person replying to you was pointing out that infant mortality skews life expectancy figures. If you made it out of childhood, you were likely to live a similar lifespan to today.

They know this, they dont care. They think the person should just be taken into the next room and shot.

The biggest argument against the death penalty is George Stinney.

Better nutrition and height queens improving the male gene pool.

Friction between plates certainly can produce magma. The heat from the core drives mantle convection, and mantle convection helps drive melting. Changing pressure alone can melt rocks (called decompression melting)!

1. My answer is just an illustration, I dont know and possibly cant know what google and co collect
2. Google isnt listening to you 24 7. This is not possible, your battery will die immediately

Either this is just a coincidence, or google know when to record and when not. But the first is more probable.

It's absolutely not possible, because even by your framing, the definition of a triangle still necessitates that the points not be linear.

Placing two points in the same point means it's not a triangle. Simple as that.

Every triangle is planar. If it's not planar, it's not a triangle, because a triangle requires three points that aren't linear.

Otherwise I could just say "it's not impossible; you can make a triangle with one point if you just make all three vertices the same point."

Using a single point to determine a plane don't work for planes that cross the origin. A point can't encode the plane orientation if the distance to the origin is 0.

What you can do is decouple it into a vector (plane orientation) and a scalar value (distance to origin).

Sounds like a chill life

You are asking 'how does that work'. Have you also asked the question, how does it work when you define a plane using 3 points? How do you determine if a 4th point is on that plane or not?

The answer to both cases is the same: you build the equation of the plane, which will look like ax + by + cz = d  
The A, B, C, and D values can be calculated from the three points on the plane, or they can be calculated from the two points using the method i mentioned. You don't need to determine 'extra points.' You just build the equation directly.

Look man I hope it works out for you really, i'm not saying it's the best i'm just doubtful things will change.

Yes, opinions about morality are entirely made up and arbitrary.

I'd probably phrase it the other way around - eating well (and probably other factors like good sleep and exercise and stuff) allows humans to grow to their full potential size, while being undernourished as children doesn't. 

If you feed children more, they're not going to continue to get larger, they'll just get fatter. Less food and they keep getting smaller (until they don't have enough to live anymore, I guess?)

So we will probably see a general capping of heights in countries with good nutrition any time now (there's a lag between nutrition changing and the kids growing up and the statistics being collected and studies and published).

The advantage is that defining a plane by 3 points requires 9 numbers. Defining a plane by two points only requires 6. It is a more compact way of storing the information.

How does that work, when you still need to determine at least one point that is equidistant from both?

They didn't memorize a thing.  Literally takes 2 seconds to look.  Is there an axleshaft attached to this wheel or not?

Plate tectonics ftw!

I love that the universe is too young to have black dwarves. 

I also realize how weird that sentence sounds. Even with the context.

Idk if it fits the usual for them, but they might be waiting out the clock to outsource it for cheap. iirc in order for a tech company to outsource a position to cheaper labor countries they first need to advertise the job for X number of months in the US and show regulators that nobody applied or everyone who applied lacked the full qualitications etcetc and then they are allowed to look outside the US. They also tend to the massively drop down the job requirements and sometimes adjust the responsibilities and such as well, long as the job title remains the same its fine.

Only seems overcomplicated if you don't realise what the difference between the initial defining points are vs the collection of infinite points that they define.

The advantage is that defining a plane by 3 points requires 9 numbers. Defining a plane by two points only requires 6. It is a more compact way of storing the information.

You don't. Every judicial system has to accept that false convictions are going to happen and you have to do what you can to minimize it but you cannot eliminate it entirely.

We'll be here, unless your body gets launched into space.  Dead or alive, we'll be here when it happens.  We just won't be in our current form.

You can say what you want, but Google is listening to you 24x7. If I have a conversation with my wife about something, you can bet that I'm going to start seeing ads for that very soon afterwards. 

My wife and I even tested this theory by talking about a specific product while our phones were on the table - she was seeing ads for that product within a day or two.

Wait a minute, it was 6' just a couple of years ago.

Fucking inflation hitting everything, damn.

There could be some stray current leak because of induction if the mains is not correctly separated from the rest of the circuit. It's harmless.

You can feel it on thin skin when you're grounded, aka touching the floor or a wall. You can feel it on computer cases and other metallic surfaces when they aren't properly grounded (otherwise it's just drained through the third pin to ground).

But other than feeling like a needle on your skin when you're well grounded, there's no danger. It's only milliamps.

For me, it's not just that, it's also how many times has someone been wrongfully convicted of something?

I mean sure, on one hand they might not get back the 15 years they spent on prison, but I'd rather spend 15 years than my life.

Simple answer is that the core is not hot enough to heat up the crust.

"Good news, everyone!"

Closely followed by:

"To shreds, you say?"

Well, here’s the thing. Humans used to be as tall before the agricultural revolution, with heights being around 5’8 - 6’ for men and 5’4 - 5’6 for women. After the agricultural revolution kicked off our sustenance was less nutritional and calorific, and humans ‘shrank’ to accommodate this new life. It’s only in the last century that our nutrition got back to good baseline and we got back to ‘normal’.

But we probably do have the adaption (given good diet and outcomes) to grow taller/bigger on average.

I could've reached even higher shelves 😩

I never mentioned like expediency you just assumed that to pass on your smugness

It does, but rocks are bad at transferring heat so the air and water cool it just fine.

Don’t forget all the radioactive elements, they also generate a lot of heat

Bending generally refers to permanent plastic deformation of the material. While all the components flex a small amount under load in a car’s suspension, the only metal part that’s flexing constantly are the springs. Everything else is articulated with ball joints and flexible rubber bushings.

Imagine teaching a lesson that just proves you can read a sentence

Loans with interest rates below the prime rate (i.e. artificially low for the first few years, and then rising to the point that many couldn't afford the payments)

For the most part, yes. But there were absolutely bad actors like Countrywide who were packaging C and D credit loans into A- bundles so they could get higher prices on the secondary market. More of those crooks should've been thrown in prison.

But the heat for magma comes from friction between tectonic plates, not the core.

And why were they in loans where the interest rate got so high?  Because they wanted stuff (a house and/or cash out of their homes to buy other stuff) that they couldn't afford with their income.  But they did it anyway.  And when the market turned, they were left exposed.  They aren't victims, just products of their own material desires and ignorance.

short people denied mating, girls seeking higher partners

Its surface will actually cool down a lot, \~3000°C, when it's a red giant and it'll engulf earth probably.

Then violent temperature burps. At that stage, it's a white dwarf with a 100 000°C surface, but it does nothing but cool down.

A few billion years to get down to today's temperature, and trillions of years to reach equilibrium with space, \~3K/-270°C

The earth has long reached an equilibrium between heating of the core, mostly via radioactive decay of unstable elements like uranium and thorium, and heat loss to space, mostly via emission of IR radiation. Without radioactive heating the core would have cooled long ago.

That must be a royal "us" cuz we aren't going to be there.

Possibly true but not confirmed by historians and largly debated about. The tennis scoring system predates the invention of clock faces with minute hands

I think it depends on the situation and how fast the tow truck driver has to get out there. I’m sure with repos, they just run in and drag it out. 

I have also seen drivers jimmy the door open, put the vehicle into neutral, then tow it. (Yes, you can put automatic cars into neutral without a key. There’s usually a plastic cover next to the shifter that is covering a button to allow them to put the car into neutral.)

Short version, it does.

Slightly less short version, our planet undergoes multiple thermal cycles both short and long. The heat from our core and mantle do heat up the crust, that combined with gases in our atmosphere and radiation from the sun is how we even have a livable temperate climate to begin with.

But the heat is also constantly radiating away so we don't overheat.

If we didn't have a hot active core, and we weren't positioned where we are in the 'green zone' from the sun, and if we didn't have the moderate atmosphere we have, we would be a cold, dead rock floating through space.

The major source of heating in the earths core is by radioactive decay of elements like uranium and thorium. Each atom decaying only gives off a tiny amount of heat but it has no where to go. This heating maintains the molten core.

Sonny was legally deemed the mastermind because he was there and convicted as though he had pulled the trigger himself. 

It's called felony murder and one doesn't have to be "the mastermind" to get convicted for it. There are cases of people being convicted of murder for letting a friend borrow a car to commit a crime and that other person killing somebody.

The three most obvious ones would be forgetting which gear you left it in, kids leaning on your car and overcoming static friction on a gentle slope, and forgetting on a steeper slope because you aren't used to using your parking brake every time.

But then how much longer do we have until the sun cools down???

So you're defining a plane using an infinite number of points rather than just 3 points? What's the advantage here? Seems overly complicated.

Yeah, that’s more like the core temperature drop. The surface temperature is 100x? lower, so its rate of change would have several more zeros.

I’d like to add, OP check out ElroyoRyan on Youtube he has a ton of rollercoaster videos and a lot of information about their safety restraints, blockzones(IYKYK) and problematic coasters and why some coasters were removed or had major overhauls or something. 

Also coaster college is another channel I stumbled upon, this channel goes more in depth on accidents. If you listen to the causalities for these accidents, it is almost always human error, such as the rider being a moron and slipping out of their lap bar. Fun stuff

Imagine a cube roughly the size of a football. Now split it in half in width and put the half on the front. Now split the whole thing in half in height and put on the front. You just made the thing 4 times longer, half as wide and half as tall. Now keep doing this over and over until the height and width are so incredibly tiny to match the size of a blood vessel or really anything else. By the point you reach that the length of your new shape is gonna be really, really long.

Oh that's a load off

So it'll increase again then!

Thanks for the in-depth explanation.
So... the metric cares about parallel processing altogether,  not super powerful one core, right?

Does it mean you could design GPU where you ditch every capability but FLOPs and qualify as supercomputer? Or implement some thousands or simple processing devices on FPGA?
I mean something like the dedicated crypto mining hardware that is only good at calculating hash...

Snort. Back when the earth was cooling I worked as a PM for a company that placed contract labor in mostly automotive. We did front-facong web dev, also ASP and JSP. (I *know*, I *know*) At some point we were told a great batch of new people were being brought in because we couldn't get skilled folks. I was writing code and project managing, it was nuts.(This was 1999-2001)
So the company brought in visa labor from overseas, and they all had degrees, so yay ? 
IN AGRICULTURE. 
We lost a contract with American Express after this, and not long after, the company went tits up. 

DURING THE DOT COM BOOM.

Much much less than that. That would be a decrease of 6500° just since the dinosaurs which weren't even all that long ago geologically speaking. Geology takes a looong time

My grandfather grew up in the Depression as 1 of 8 kids with minimal food (rat was on the menu). He went to college after high school and worked in the campus cafeteria kitchen where he could eat as much as he wanted for the first time in his life.  He grew 8” taller that year, long after most people finish growing - plus filled out and added a bunch of muscle.  His family didn’t recognize him when he came home that first year.  In his case, he had “tall genes” and grew up malnourished which stunted his growth.

Better nutrition would be a big part of it.

I have some good news! Earth's core cools very slowly and it won't have time to cool down fully before the sun expands into a red giant and engulfs us in a fiery inferno!

It does, that is why the surface isn't zero kelvin during the night or in the poles.

Part of it is that spatial memory is allowed to be approximate. You don't need the exact distance to the kitchen, just "it's that way", so good enough counts as success and the memory feels solid. Facts are unforgiving. One wrong digit or date and the whole thing reads as "wrong", so the same fuzzy recall that works fine for a room feels like total failure for information. Stack that on years of walking through the place versus a few hours of reading, and the gap makes sense.

A lot of comments about nutrition. I’d argue mate selection is as if not more important.

Yeah, by .0001 degrees per year, maybe? It’s lost in the measurement noise.

It is, just really slowly.

It is. Smaller planets like Mars likely have fully cooled interiors

I stopped at 5’4” then got wider instead of taller in my teen years. Sad. My dad’s 6’3” and my mom’s 5”11”. Where is my tall?

Shouldn't it be decreasing then?

There's a very delicate balance of heat being generated within Earth's core (from friction, tidal forces, and high energy particles from the Sun), sunlight, and the cooling from infrared radiation being dumped from the atmosphere. That balance makes it so that the crust stays mostly solid atop the mantle.

If you've ever cooked beans and reheated them, there's a point where sometimes there's this thin wrinkly film of colder bean soup on top of the fully liquid beans below, and that's kind of what the crust is like. But then if you keep heating up the 'mantle' to the point of actual boiling, that top layer is completely gone.

It's kind of scary to think of how a few hundred degrees of average temperatures within the mantle are what allows us to have somewhere not molten to stand on.

The temperature of anything is a balance of heat gain versus heat loss. The earth's crust gains heat from radioactive decay underground and solar radiation during the day. The earths crust loses heat by radiating it away during nighttime. That heating and cooling balance out to create the temperature of the crust.

If the crust were to increase in temperature, then it would radiate more away because hot things radiate heat faster than cold things. Again, bringing it back to a stable equilibrium.,

Another source of magma is melting the crust! So, it does heat up a little. But the surface temperature is dominated by radiation of energy out (or back out, in the case of radiation from the sun) to space, so we don't feel it at the surface.

A good example of this is the heigth difference between south and north koreans- same genetics but very different outcomes.

Also less taxing physical work and more sleep in childhood. I may be wrong, but I think that also helps.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Plagiarism is a serious offense, and is not allowed on ELI5. Although copy/pasted material and quotations are allowed as part of explanations, you are required to include the source of the material in your comment. Comments must also include at least some original explanation or summary of the material; comments that are only quoted material are not allowed.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

The Earth’s surface temperature has had four billion years to stabilize. It is being heated continuously by the core, and it radiates heat to space. It’s also warmed by sunlight and kept warm by the atmosphere. The internal temperature isn’t increasing over time.

Correlation isn't necessarily a guarantee

And rock is bad at transferring heat

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

There are a few ways:

1. Often search for open/unauthenticated databases, and just download/scrape the data- requires a bit of web search techniques/knowledge  
2. Just buy it from a seller who has already stolen such data from 1 - the deal ways differ by data size/quality/  
3. Retrieve from other services. Services like Google, Microsoft, and more share a bunch of information via different methods and services to other parties. A good example is given by u/acakaacaka. For example, Amazon already knows your behaviours, interests, and more, and this data is served to other businesses like Market Intelligence Companies, Sellers, etc, other tech/non-tech companies, basically whoever needs it and is willing to pay for it.

It absolutely does make sense morally in some situations. Good riddance!

It does, but the surface is radiating that heat away into space

Sometimes you wanna eat a pear but all you can find at the supermarket is apples.

Bending is sometimes good, sometimes bad. Your car suspension bends JUST the right amount. Any more and you're constantly bottoming out, any less and you hit the roof on every rumble strip. 

The same is true of any structure. A steel bridge needs to flex to some degree with various loads to prevent damage to other parts of the bridge via repeated stress, but if it bends too much, it will dip too much when a truck goes over it.

If the points were collinear, you still have a plane, just looking at it from the edge of the 2D plane. But you can’t do 3D math (depth) in a 2D space.

I actually learned through a TIL thread that humans were taller pre-agriculture, and a switch to farming from hunting/gathering caused a significant drop in height. this Wikipedia article has an interesting graph under the Pre-modern period tab.

Of course, but it's not going to change within decades.

I'm 6"5 and always joke I'm glad it stunted my growth because some doorways and low ceilings are already an issue

No It's just humans eating more meat and protein

By that logic the context of "all 3 points are contained in the plane" is also extra information.

Imagine 10 people. 5 die before the age of 5 and 5 live to the age of 70, the average lifespan 37.5 years. This doesn’t mean that everyone dies at 37.

The buoyant force is equal to the weight of water displaced. You need to build your boat so that the weight of water that would otherwise occupy the volume of the submerged part of the hull is equal to the total weight of the boat. 

In terms of how the weight is distributed it doesnt really matter for buoyancy, but it will effect the stability, poor distribution could cause the boat to capsize or dunk one side in water. If that happens water gets in, the boat gets heavier than the displaced water, and it sinks.

Your phone is collecting data like screen time, position, click per minutes, etc etc

Facebook of course knows where you are, what you see

Amazon knows what you buy yesterday and last week

Google knows what kind of apps you use

All of them sell your data to Databroker

Databroker will compile/aggregate your data

Now they can sell a comprehensive data of you.

So you don’t know what you’re talking about? That seems obvious.

If I apply Internet thinking, y'all'd be about 7' if they didn't

That’s not accurate. There is evolutionary pressure placed on height.

Some criminal is willing to pay for a database of information so he can use it for fraud, phishing, ID fraud etc etc. Another criminal has the database and is looking for a buyer. They find each other through shady websites or telegram groups etc.  There is no specific method. It's just people buying and selling stuff through channels that are hard to monitor by the authorities.

Can't find the *exact* study (it has been a few years), but Google the connection between childhood infections and adult height and you will find a number of relevant sources, such as this: 

The article *I remember*, linked the spread frequency of gastro viruses to the family size resulting in multipler factor

probably always will in capitalist societies

You're not describing capitalism, you're describing some sort of short-sighted MBA-led capitalism where everything has metrics that need to be improved. If you have a nicer building with more services, people will pay higher rent. But along comes management and decides you need to cap your maintenance budget and that you could make money charging people to use the common spaces, and rent prices drop as people get annoyed and move out, but by then, you've gotten your bonuses. 

I'm not saying that corporations have souls, per se, but when they're owned by someone who built the concept, it was built on values that understood the industry. I own a hotel, and I always say that we don't run on money, we run on happy people. Happy staff make happy guests (and unhappy guests get kicked out, which is always fun). If we got bought out, you can bet that the new owners would cut wages and track time off, and suddenly you'd go from no turnover and the front desk agent knowing half the guests' preferences in cookie flavour to monthly new people who know nothing. 

Because customer service can't be measured or priced.

People commit data breaches or scrape information from the web

Sell it on the dark web

As others have said, it's food availability, but I want to speak to the part about genetics that you mentioned. Your genes can predispose you to growing to a certain height, but you're only gonna reach that height if you eat enough and get the right nutrients to sustain all that growth. Maybe you have the genes to grow all the way to 6'4", but if you're malnourished growing up, you're not actually gonna get that tall. There's been no genetic change over the last century that's made people taller, we're just more able to reach the heights allowed by our genes.

It may have caused a tiny slump in the increase of average height, but in the big picture the effect is tiny. Smoking with women and during pregnancy was popular for such a short period.

We are not monsters.   
  
That's just like, your opinion, maaaaan.   
And my opinion is that you are.

One of the problems is that it used to be in factory manufacturing, you needed a lot of manpower whose main requirement was to show up do some fairly simple (if sometimes back breaking) tasks. 

Yeah, I recall seeing an old picture somewhere (maybe even on reddit, but I think it was somewhere else) of a dozen or so young ladies sitting around a giant rectangular table at colgate palmolive about 100 years ago wrapping up soap bars by hand.

Obviously, virtually anything menial like that is long gone now to machines.

You need need super specialized people to fix, maintain, operate the machines, but the tens/hundreds of thousands (maybe even millions) of more menial manufacturing jobs are all long gone to machines.

Don't forget the flippers, people with no income buying several houses, doing minimal work and trying to sell them for substantially more before the ARM increases/balloon comes do, the 5yr balloon on most of the ARMS also decimated a lot of people, ultimately the banks were predatory and people do what they always do, squeeze the fish one more time to see if another gold coin will pop out.

Ooh colleague 😄  I did that as a student job on a Vekoma Boomerang ages and ages ago.  

We did have a failure of a restraint system once.  Result?  It couldn't open any more as the restraints were also built as fail-closed.  So those people (yes we asked if they wanted to) got ride three more times, until the park mechanics arrived to free them.

Intriguing.  Source?

Same here. I'm a hair taller than you and was well fed. Both my parents are small though.

It’s one of the rare sporting activities where I really can’t think about a reason to get started with. Like, really… what’s the motivation? 
„Yes mom, I am now the fastest walker on the planet!!1!“ 

No disrespect to the athletes, because it’s absolutely brutal the be good at that. But… WHY?

memory is based on connections and how many triggers you have to the information. There is no way a childhood home or old school is going to compared to the amount of memories of simply learning something.

We are but a link in the chain.

I'd love to see any research on that since both of my parents are long term smokers and my brother is around 185cm (~6') and I'm 177cm (~5'10). Not saying that smoking isn't otherwise terrible and affecting pregnancies negatively but I genuinely would like to see whether it has an effect on height during pregnancy/childhood.

While nutrition is important, your body's biological clock is also different compared to people from the past. The more light (be it natural or artificial) we get, the more our body perceives it as an active period, where certain hormones (like growth hormones) are produced more.
This can be seen in the period when homes where fitted with electricity, the change is more noticeable.

Imagine a highway retention with several car lines. The traffic flow smoothly with each car in his line.  But in a place there is broken down car in the side. It's not blocking the car lines but the car lines have to distort to go around the car and leave some space. This is what carbon does. It add distortions that prevent the iron atoms to move unimpeded. This make it less likely to bend because the atoms cannot travel as efficiently. But more likely to crack. 

If you add too much the carbon atoms rather than be dispersed around the highway (the iron) joint together and form a ceramic compound that is very hard and very fragile that left the iron matrix. It's like broken down cars making a camping outside the highway.

It's easier to explain it visually with magnetic balls.   Drop a bunch and they will stick in a pattern. One ball connected to other 4 balls in a cross pattern. So you have lines off balls in parallel. If you push them they will jump from in parallel untill the next ball.

Carbon is a ball with different size within this matrix that means that they don't form totally parallel lines so it's harder form them to jump.

If you do the same in other place the pattern will be the same. But if join then together they will stick together but as the shapes are different and the orientation is different they are not neatly joined together. This are metal grain boundaries.

If you add a carbon you will increase the number of distortions. But at a point carbon will stall to joint together and form clumps of carbon-iron ceramics. Within the same grain they still do the distortion. But when they accumulate in the border now the grains are less tightly joint together because those ceramic are not magnetic making it easier to break one from the other.

Very true. I recall seeing that some VPN company was set up as a sting recently.

Economy’s on fire, big business is hyperfixating on AI and every other unethical technique they can come up with to not have to pay employees, and while we wait for them to absolutely flatten the working class, they have to play nice like they’re not imminently trying to drive their companies into the dirt, by perpetually putting out ads for positions they refuse to fill.

I think the data from 2000BCE was burned,  and the data from 10,000 might of gotten wet

Wish they had cloud services then

Something I haven't seen mentioned yet, but not only do they have to wait until you've done all of your appeals, they'll also wait until anyone else whom you might be called as witness for (or against I suppose) has exhausted all of their appeals too.

You can't execute someone if you still need them for someone else's due process.

This is probably not the same in every country/state with the death penalty but it is a thing in the country I live in.

Never, ever look at the brass section. They don’t need the encouragement. 

 — Richard Strauss, on conducting an orchestra.

Lamarck, is that you?

If only life and prejudice were that easy to navigate. 

I'll just settle for my white male first world privilege. Being a shortarse just helps keep me grounded (pun intended).

People really don’t get that half of ALL people died by 35, for basically ever 

Almost everyone knew immediate family that died of something that could be cured in one trip to the pharmacy today.

Most regular people lived hand to mouth for most of their lives… 

The “gentry” and the “bourgeois” with their kinda rich and negative connotations just meant middle class, that’s what we expect as the norm today, instead of seeing them as sneering down on us regular people.

There are workers available in fields that have no need but they are not qualified for fields that are looking to hire.
E.g. there might be a lot of cleaners available but a company needs an electrician. The cleaner cant do that job.

A big example of this was pilots after covid.

Covid caused air travel to basically stop for a year and a half.  During said time a lot of pilots were forced into early retirement (or laid off and got a different job).

After covid got resolved, everyone wanted to travel again... but said stated a good number of pilots were forced into retirement or laid off.  There's a big shortage.

Plenty of workers available, not exactly many that are capable or wanting to be pilots.  Requires a LOT of hours of training.

Not really in this day and age. Maybe a few hundred thousand years ago.

Cookie dough too soft, chewy cookie perfect, burned cookie too hard.

I wonder if sexual selection has a meaningful impact.

All the jokes about needing to be 6'2" or taller in dating profiles.

If anyone judges you because of your height then they are pathetic

The genes of the ancestors course through you, short king wicked_genitals.

You want summary executions of people based on vibes? Concerning.

Nothing you said contradicts what the person above said.

I believe there was a period when chickens were fed growth hormones. Some of which would be passed on when consumed. Which I think has been limited now. 

I don't have any sources so I'm not sure how factual this is but it is something I heard over 2 decades ago.

I've watched a local company do this many many times in less than 10 minutes. They take their wheel dollies, put em under the side of the car they can't get with their truck. Then they jack up the dolly to get the car wheels off the ground, then their trucks have a rear mechanism they lower under the car that expand out then lift that end of the car under the tires. They strap it down, put a red light on the car, and drive away. None of the cars wheels have to be on the ground for this to work. 

The only limitation of this system that I've seen is if the wheels on the vehicle are too far apart they can't jack it up and take off with it. 

I just looked it up: it's called a slide -in-wheel lift.

Hello SignificantMany588,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Nutrition. I live in Cambodia where there was three decades of war and starvation. Twenty years ago I towered over most locals. Nowadays there are tons of young people who are taller than me.

A lot of comments and not a single one addressed the main issue with unemployment statistics. 

The unemployment rate is the total number of unemployed individuals divided by the total labor force (employed and unemployed). An unemployed individual is counted as someone who is able bodied and actively seeking work (have made an attempt to find a job in the last 4 weeks). 

This means that anyone who has given up on trying to get a job, falls off of the unemployed statistic. This can make the statistic appear better than it actually is.

Is there any evidence that people's height is affected by whether or not their mother was fully grown before she first got pregnant?

Me, a person who wasn't malnourished but only grew to be 166 cm tall: 😑

Also, turns out having less kids in a family is good for their height.

There was a research into why big families have shorter kids, than families with one or two.

The conclusion was that the multi-kid families suffered from more frequent gastro-intestinal viral infections in their younger years stunting their growth.

But not too much otherwise fertiliser goes into water source.

Shelves keep getting higher and we evolve to make up for it.

Imagine a plane in 3D space, with two points drawn on it, and a line connecting them. You can rotate that plane around the line like a paddle - in other words, there are an infinite number of planes that can pass through that line.

But if you add a third point, away from the line through the other two, and spin the plane around the line again, there's only one orientation in which the plane cuts through the new point\*. So there's only one plane containing all three points. And in that sense, those three points "define" that (and only that) plane.

And, yes, they also define a triangle in that plane. And, indeed, a circle. And probably a whole number of other things.

\**(The plane doesn't have any properties distinguishing two different "sides" - so once you've spun it through 180 degrees you're back to where you started.)*

Shortage of immigrants. Solution is to take in more.

Because you have to be tall enough to enter the test.

Oh no, for sure they have their uses, like when a car goes off an embankment and you have to fish it out where it makes more sense to lift than to drag it back up, which is why I say "usually."

If it's just an illegal park or a repo, something of that nature, then a short drag onto a rollback isn't gonna hurt it or as others have said, you can wheel lift and dolly and you don't have to drag it an inch. If you like watching towing videos, you can find Towtrucker on YouTube and he runs a rollback so you can see that one in action, if you're not already watching him that is.

There are two main things that affect your height - genes and health. Two taller parents will probably have taller kids. If someone with taller genes has an unhealthy life, like with less food, more illness, or less exercise, they won't grow as big and strong as they could. 

The average is going up because we know a lot more about how to be healthy, so more people are growing up big and strong.

I have this map of uncharted territories that’s completely blank, what does it look like over there? Please don’t say it’s uncharted (I already know that).

Genetics does not play a role at all in the sense that genetics would have changed. 

Genetics has the key role in the sense that the taller heights are what the genetics lead to when the person has enough nutrition and less illness.

Aristocrats were usually taller than common people because they had more and better food, but they were not as tall as we are now because they still fell ill like the common people and did not have all the needed nutrition the modern people have.

Romans invaded Brittian partly for the Tin.

Precisely to make me feel bad. I am a white guy who never got past 164cm (5'4½") which puts me in the lowest 10% in my country.

But I'm not bitter about it

Im 100% convinced smoking is a major one

Especially mothers smoking during pregnancy

Nutrition. Humans could always grow this tall, but it’s only recently in human history where most humans could actually eat however much food they needed in a day

This. And I have a feeling most people don’t really understand how bad the past was in so many ways compared to now. (Not saying it’s perfect now, but boy, there’s no other age I’d rather live in.)

Average height correlates very strongly with food quality. To such a degree that we are pretty sure there is a direct causal link. Taken together, it seems that the most likely explanation is that people have always had a potential to be about 170-180 cm on average, but it was malnutrition holding developing children and teens back.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

ELI5 is not for straightforward answers or facts - ELI5 is for requesting an explanation of a concept, not a simple straightforward answer. This includes topics of a narrow nature that don’t qualify as being sufficiently complex per rule 2. 

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

Have to disagree on fire. Fire still looks unreal whenever it is CGI. I don't mind in a firehouse TV show that can't afford to burn down a building every week but it still doesn't look as real an an explosion on The A-Team in the 80s.

Better health practices, more selective mating process also. People can choose instead of , this is Bob he's 50 and needs to reproduce to keep his lineage. He paid nicely for you. Bye

Maybe when we were hunter gatherers, but we’ve been beyond those things for thousands of years.

The potential for growth hasn't necessarily gone up, at least much, we have simply been eliminating factors that stunt growth, like malnutrition and other health issues.

And as a side benefit, when we discover they're innocent, we haven't killed them already.

( Unless you're Justice Scalia and don't think actual innocence is a good reason for a retrial.  )

I woke up one evening to the sound of squealing tires. When I looked out the window, I saw a tow truck dragging the neighbor’s car down the road. They could only pick it up by the back, and the front wheels were locked. I’m sure they stopped at some point and moved to the front, but it was loud.

interestingly.. if you look at tiling from the beginning of time up until 50 years ago, the point was to leave no gaps. the gap that is now 'normal' is wholly to do with modern methods.. i can't really back up 'lack of skill', so won't say it (but probably is - or cement, in a way i don't understand)

I would prefer to keep my necessary and unnecessary bits, thank you!

Mostly by compiling experimental data honestly. We can’t take one thing of food and accurately determine everything in it. We group things together, like proteins, we can analyze the nitrogen, assume it’s from protein, and say there is this much protein. Then some more complex study finds the ratios of proteins in that food, so we use the nitrogen and that ratio to determine the amount of different proteins. Any given food is different in its composition though. We have studied soo many foods so many ways we have really good data to use. How accurate is really how much you are willing to spend.

That's the Netherlands. But ask them and they'll tell you it is because they drink a lot of milk and eat a lot of cheese while they're not even in the top 5 for those in Europe.

And this will result in recursive enshittification.

Usually I guess but I have watched Ron Pratt pick up cars from wrecks several times.

If your natural resource is "a patriotic ass-ton of sunshine" then no..... these things can sit there passively running off a solar panel and maybe a battery to extend or shift  the usage cycle into the dark hours and make water appear. No need for a truck more than the one it got delivered on, no daily requirement for fuel for said truck

As usual, xkcd nails it 100%.

Well, this was unexpectedly informative.

Now allow me to hijack the top comment to give a **proper ELI5** response that's a perfectly functional analogy, but provides no real explanation whatsoever (has no substance, no pun intended).

When you're thirsty, you feel weak. If you then drink some water, you begin to feel stronger. If you keep drinking past what you need, your tummy starts to hurt.

Coaster College has some great insight on the workings of roller coasters, safety mechanisms and restraints, etc. They also have a whole bunch of videos deep diving into accidents and how they happened, which might help by showing how much has to go wrong (or it might make the anxiety worse...)

Your submission has been removed because it concerns a question about Reddit itself, Reddit's karma, upvotes or drama in another sub. 
Understand that the visible upvote score and actual upvote score are not the same, reddit manipulates the scores for content management, 
and question about votes/karma should be asked in r/help Questions about drama in some other sub should be asked that sub, or in r/subredditdrama or r/theoryofreddit

See also: /coins/ and /r/announcements/comments/5gvd6b/scores_on_posts_are_about_to_start_going_up/

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Ok. That's interesting. Thank you you for responding!

A lot of cars are all wheel drive so they need to be put on wheel dollies to avoid doing damage. If a car is front wheel drive or rear wheel drive you can just lift it from the drive axle and let the other axle roll and it’ll be fine.

Steels is the range of 0 to 2% carbon. But you must see it the opposite way. You start with much higher percentages and what you invented was a way to reduce ot from 6% to 1% without "overcooking" it to 0% be leaving it excessive time.

So if somebody raped and murdered your teenage daughter, and I’m talking about a situation where the evidence is irrefutable,you’re telling me that what you would want for that individual is that the taxpayer provide them food, shelter, clothing, and medical care for the rest of their natural life?

I don't know if anyone has mentioned this, but it might be because od nutrition

food and vaccines. Infantile diseases take their toll on small children

I disagree that it's instinct.

Here you go:

Iron - C Phase Diagram

My favourite Diagram from studies, Article explains quite well :)

It might help if you share where you're from then, because I've played in many competitions here in Australia, only recreational (I'm not that good to be pro, haha, Saturday afternoon comps are good enough for me), and have never heard that shortening before. If I heard 3-4, I would assume that's the score for the current set, or the tie-breaker score for the game.

They don’t lmfao they will happily fuck up your car,  it 100% is not their problem

Nice!  Not an ideal time to be in the US of course, but it sounds like you were able to make it.  I’m happy to hear that.

Grab any reasonably flat and rigid but light object, like a tray or a book (i.e. approximating a plane).

Now try to use the minimum number of fingers to hold it up and balanced.

You will need three fingers, at non-colinear points.  If you try using only two fingers, or try to put one of the three fingers in line with the other two, then the tray will rotate around that line and fall off.  This is because you no longer have enough points to support the plane.

Predators, raiders and assorted things that go bump in the night.

they are highly regarded. also it is mandatory to moan because your blood is pouring with endorphins while playing that magnificent game.

Its not genetics, its environment. Better nutrition specifically

I used to drive tow truck professionally, there are a bunch of answers to this question.

We lift from the drive wheels side, and we use tow dollies on the all wheel drive cars.

If the car is in a position where we cannot get the dollies in place, we will drag it into the open, and that doesn't damage anything normally, I've done it to my own cars many times.

We can also get inside a locked car in seconds, and floor shift automatics have a little access panel you pop off to defeat the park lock and get the car in neutral.

And when we tow using a flatbed truck, we literally drag the car up the deck, once a car starts moving it moves very easily and that kind of distance, especially once on the aluminum deck of the truck, does not damage the tires, transmission or parking brake. The reason it's easy to drag is the contact patch of the tires, it's a little less than the width of the tire, and about 1 inch long per tire.

But what are electrolytes?

Also, the plants we see are the ones that survived the conditions

**Physical Significance**

The Planck length marks the scale at which the fabric of spacetime is theorized to become quantized or exhibit "quantum foam". A common theoretical argument is that attempting to observe anything smaller would require so much energy that the observation point would collapse into a microscopic black hole. 

**Common Misconceptions**

* **"The Smallest Possible Distance":** While widely popularized as the smallest physically meaningful distance, it is more accurately the scale where our current mathematical models stop working. Whether space is actually discrete (pixelated) at this scale remains an unresolved question in quantum gravity. 
* **Scale Visualization:** To visualize how tiny this is, if a single proton were magnified to the size of our solar system (out to the orbit of Neptune), the Planck length would be roughly the size of a standard virus.

Carbon doesn’t just “add strength,” it gets in the way of iron atoms sliding past each other, so the metal resists bending way better. But once there’s enough carbon, it starts making hard, crack-prone structures instead of a uniform metal, so you get something tough on paper but brittle in real life.

The percentage always goes up, so they reach the end.

This isn't necessarily true. Just because the distance keeps increasing doesn't mean they reach the end. For example if the distance increased like 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, 0.9999,... then the distance would never reach 1.

It is a keep part of the solution that the distance tends to infinity, that is enough to prove the ant reaches the end of the rope.

Ah, so it’s not as much factor of the rain shadow itself, but it’s simply the coincidence of the wet season & winter. Makes sense.

In the case of California, there is a distinct wet and dry season for reasons related to large-scale atmospheric circulation, and the wet season coincides with winter. It doesn’t take a lot of water to generate a lot of snow: one inch of rain equates to about one foot of snow. Even if the rain shadow blocks most moisture, several inches of precipitable water over the span of the wet season will result in several feet of snow at altitudes where it doesn’t get warm enough to melt in between storms.

Brawndo! It’s what Plants crave

Another problem I have been running into is my field has all but disappeared in my, But because of my previous pay rates minimum wage jobs won't touch me.  So I'm forced to apply to jobs that I kind of qualify for, and I assume eventually I'll end up getting one of those, but in the meanwhile I'm being beat out by people who are actually qualified for it.  I was kind of forced into 6 months of being unemployed when I had a massive lung infection that hit me right after being laid off.   And the extended job Gap has also started to affect me and my hireability.

Orographic lifting forces the snow out of the air. Also, prevailing wind direction is often west to east, creating more snow deposition on the leeward side of the ridges.

Eventually its just gonna cap out. More nutrition than necessary wont make you taller just wider, and across generations eventually all the genes are switched to the 'on' position. I think we're pretty much there.

Rain washes down the side of the mountain while snowpack will stay until it melts. So even if it’s not as much snow as what falls on the western side it can still build up a bit.

I used to go climb on the eastern side in the winter and there’s really not much besides at higher elevations. Even then I’d be driving through 8’+ of snow around Tahoe and might see 2’ or so once I crossed over so the difference is pretty stark.

"locked in a smelly, loud and cold concrete and metal bathroom surrounded by dangerous individuals"

that's not inherent to prisons, yall just hate prisoners

we absolutely can build better correctional facilities

I'm unclear about what your position is. Are you saying that we should keep the death penalty despite killing innocent people because we also imprison innocent people? Or are you saying we should abolish prisons to reduce the risk if innocent people being given life sentences?

Follow up question. Does this mean we're going to continue getting taller? In a 100 generations from now will our average height be 8 feet?

Remember to fertilize your plants!

Planck units are a set of units (a way of measuring things) based on four universal constants that come up in modern physics; the speed of light in a vacuum, the gravitational constant, the reduced Plank constant, and the Botlzmann constant.

They were an attempt to create a system of units that didn't rely on some arbitrary measurement (as things like a metre or second do).

In Planck units each of these constants has a value of 1, e.g. the speed of light is 1 Planck length/Planck time.

Max Planck (one of the originators of quantum mechanics) developed these, although his were different as he used the regular Planck constant, not the reduced ones.

So the Plank length is defined as the square root of the reduced Planck constant x the gravitational constant / the speed of light cubed. Which works out to be roughly 1.6 x 10^(-35)m.

That's it.

There is no particular significance to it.

It is a really small length (similar to the Planck time, which is ~10^(-44)s, whereas the Planck mass is only ~10^(-8)kg and the Planck temperature is ~10^(32)K).

It isn't that our understanding of physics breaks down when we hit Planck lengths, but more that physics gets kind of messy at those scales as it is hard to do experiments or get measurements, making testing competing theories difficult - but that isn't anything to do with the Planck length itself.

Remember to fertilize your plants kids.

I discovered this recently and found it genuinely shocking. The introduction of agriculture caused people's general health to nosedive. Not only did heights for both men and women shrink, but bone density declined as well. Switching from an active hunter-gatherer lifestyle to farming was actually unhealthy. 

(Source: *Goliath's Curse,* by Luke Kemp)

They’re usually for places where there isn’t a “nearest water source” to truck from. Like remote research stations, military outposts in arid areas, or off-grid homes with no well access.

  
Yeah, they’re energy-hungry, but sometimes the alternative is flying in bottled water by helicopter, which is way more expensive and logistically insane. It’s a niche tool for when you’ve got power but no water infrastructure at all.

It’s almost as if our government is running a (mostly) effective healthcare program but 50% of the country takes personal offense to the idea of universal healthcare.

How do they stop the car from going down the garage ramp too quickly

We didn't get taller, we got shorter instead, and are now recovering. Let me explain.

So in hunter gatherer time we had perfect nutrition, cuz that's what we evolved for. Back then humans were, on average, larger than today. 

Then came agriculture, grains etc, basically lot of carbs that will sustain a man, and large civilisations, but nutritionally it was way worse than what we had before. So we lost size overtime.

We are still in recovery from invention of agriculture basically, but genetically, we always had the potential to get as big as we are getting today, even bigger.

Theres a lot of idealism in what you say and little in the way of reality. If you could get a doctorate, but you had to get it while EXISTING in an elevator car and never be able to apply that knowledge, is it worth it?  Is that “living a life”?

Yes, considering the circumstances. In no way is prison a great place, but humans adjust. In prison you develop a lifestyle and routine. When you spend so long there you stop thinking about "what I could be doing on the outside" and just do your daily shit. If death were considered a more suitable alternative, plenty of inmates would be committing suicide (or even homicide) instead of just...living their lives. But most people want to be alive more than anything else. It's easy to feel like "Man I'd rather die than X" until your life is actually on the line and your animal instincts kick in. 

Obviously if everyone who is locked up could just be free they would. But many who get get off papers after years talk about how life outside was weird and took time to readjust to, because they were so comfortable on the inside.

Source: Multiple family members who are currently in prison for life or have spent decades (3+) in prison.

No you can not reverse jail time. It's called jail TIME for a reason.

Flatbeds and ramp trucks are extremely common now a days in the US as well. With the rise of all wheel drive it just makes it easier.  Though traditional tow trucks still exist and have their advantages so I doubt they every fully disappear.

I guess companies with a good legal department can write contracts like that, for smaller ones it's less easy.

Do you understand how a line is defined by two points?  The line segment in between can only exist on one line. The exact same logic applies to the triangle between three points and the plane it must lie on.

Scoring is one thing, but I never quite understood what they announce when serve hits the net - and have been too shamed to ask.

There are some physical constants that come up a lot in physics. Thing like the speed of light, the gravitational constant, the Planck constant, the Boltzmann constant, etc.

Unfortunately, when expressed using normal SI units these constants have very awkward values, the speed of light is very big, the gravitational is very small, the Planck and Boltzmann constants are very, *very* small, so calculation with them becomes cumbersome.

The Planck Units are a set of units constructed so that the four constants above have values of 1. The speed of light is 1 Planck length per Planck time, the gravitational constant is 1 (Planck length3/(Planck time2 × Planck mass)), etc.

# And that is all the Planck units are.

They are **NOT** some kind of resolution limit of the universe, though they by virtue of being created to work with the physical constants they do, they do coincide with certain boundary conditions in our current understanding of physics, though generally far away from our ability to test that our understanding at these scales is actually correct.

It's pretty common for players to drop the "15" down to just "5".

idk bruv im just saying why the commentator would mention sleep. Probably due to being able to sleep more comfortably now and more people sleeping less back then due to work

Next time you can just find the fuel pump fuse and pull that to stop any car :)

Or just any of the ECU/ignition fuses generally will stop a car too, but fuel pump is pretty safe to pull.

In addition to the mentioned nutrition, one factor i havent seen mentioned here is epigenetics. 

Certain genes get up or down regulated across generations based on the conditions prior generations experienced. Theres evidence that height is a property influenced by this system. This would mean that your parents having poor nutrition will impact your height, which explains why we might be even taller than our parents

There are probably a few niche situations it could be useful, but yes generally they are too energy intensive to be practical which is why for the last couple of decades now we've seen articles a few times a year about such devices solving water shortages but then inevitably quietly disappearing after a year or so of "development".

The thought is that if they are alive they have the chance to be found innocent even if it's decades later. If they are killed then there's no chance of that (at least as it pertains to their freedom). The inmate doesn't always know that they will never be granted freedom and will die in prison. 

Plus most people would rather be alive than murdered, even if their life is spent in prison.

Nutrition. When kids eat good, they grow into taller adults. That means that during the 1900s people grew to the tallest they've ever been. Gen-Z (1997-2012) are the first generation in a while to on average be shorter than their parents. It is believed that an overconsumption of junk food is part of the reason for this.

I believe people used to sleep a lot less back then? I think thats obvious

Simply put, we eat better, especially protein. 

IIRC paleolithic men used to be quite tall, maybe not as tall as we are but talk, since their regimen was full of fiber and protein. Then agriculture and the neolithic revolution arrived. Many more men, but with a poorer regimen based on cereal. 

We're back to eating better, even better than 300-500 generations who were eating crap.

It’s because humanity has finally started getting back to the size we were before we started farming. Seriously, once agriculture started average height dropped about 6 inches or 15 cm.

Nutrition. Genetics. And in some places, a cultural preference for a taller spouse.

More impactfully, the people looking for unskilled labor jobs also have the least ability to either get to the jobsite, or entirely pick up and move themselves to where jobs can be found. Those things cost money and a fair bit of it and its a general historic trend. The people who generally showed up to factories for work weren't subsistence peasants stripped of their land, it was farmers who sold their farms to afford moving to the city. Those dispossessed peasants tended to get stuck as rural unemployed.

My teacher gave me this water analogy, too, but it doesn't feel very intuitive, you know? When we turn off a tap, the gearball thingy physically stops water from coming out. When we use a switch to turn off the lights, the circuit is physically incomplete now, the line is broken.

So how does a software(?) stop current from flowing in? Unless the code that enables this feature physically breaks a super small circuit inside the phone? I'd be satisfied with this explanation if that's the case.

Roommate did this and said they have a dark spot where they slept on it, not getting shocked

Stupid question here: how do you know which drive it has? Do you certain cars always have certain drives, do you have to look it up or just always know?

I know nothing about cars lol

Sidenote: it can be seen  by the vpn provider; so it basically shifts trust there

It was a brand called Rabipur. What's the difference? Is it not as effective?

Why are you mentioning sleep? People slept back then.

I'm happy to be shot down by someone working in the area- but, turning the usual description on its head, it's the point at which at there's "enough" of "whatever is fundamentally happening under the covers" for "length" to actually start to become meaningful. So in a way it's the point at which there's enough going on (enough energy, basically) for the scale of the universe to emerge. 

That "whatever" is usually pictured as a quantum foam, and the description works well to explain some of the things we actually see - but at that point we're potentially getting close to what the universe itself is, fundamentally - and we don't have a good idea of that.

Okay...as someone who has one on order and intends to be utility-independent by retirement:

- an AWG generates water at the cost of... fans, lights, and filters.

- Fans and lights run off electricity.

- I can make free electricity.

In fact, making free electricity is the only reason that my plan is viable.  I literally sought out an all-electric house deliberately.  I replaced the inefficient storage heaters with heatpumps deliberately.  The whole house can run off the solar no problem.  I have more than enough potential / spare capacity to run other things.

I cannot, however, "make" water without doing something.  I have no streams, wells, collecting rainwater is viable but it's mainly for greywater unless you want to... spend a lot of electricity to sanitise it.  Just like an AWG does.

In fact, and AWG produces pure water for a pittance.  It's MAINTAINING that water until you want to use it that costs more energy (UV sterilisation, filtering, pumping, etc. - remember this water is NOT chlorinated/flouridated like your tap water so it goes bad FAST if you don't continually cycle it, like in a fish tank or pond - and we run those 24/7 too!).  And when it uses so little energy overall, and electricity is basically free... it's really not an issue.  Now I can have free drinking water.

Additionally, with a combination of greywater (not sanitised) to supply things like appliances and flush toilets, and AWG water to drink... you don't need water from the grid at all.

I'm not going "off-grid"... that's not my intention.  I live in a beautiful little village in a rural area, but I'm not trying to go off-grid and grow my own potatoes.  What I want is to disconnect my life from a dependence on utilities with ever-increasing prices, no care for the environment, in some cases are outright illegally polluting and damaing the whole place (Thames Water in the UK are actively polluting every river with sewage because they spent all the ring-fenced money that was intended for sewage treatment on company bonuses for their bosses, took out huge loans and gave those to their shareholders, and are now pleading poverty and demanding a government bailout to fix... the literal thing they exist to do... supply clean water and deal with sewage) who provide a service that I can literally provide better myself.

An AWG is a big part of that.  Drinking water is a difficult thing to make and sustain.  But if it costs me a 500W device (I'm exaggerating) constantly running to get free water?  That's a couple of solar panels, and a battery, and I have a lifetime of water and never have to give Thames Water a single penny.  At worst, it runs most of the time for free, especially in the summer when I would most want water!, and I don't have to pay them as much.

 Filling up a vehicle to go and get water means... paying a water company, a plastic company, an oil company... and possibly the HUGEST power draw I will ever have will be an electric car (also on the plans, but will run from the grid for much of the first few years!).  So... no, that's even more ridiculous than just running a device at home and getting "infinite" free drinking water.

AWGs are a great idea, and they're already available in the "drinking fountain" kind of device in offices.  They use slightly more than a fridge or freezer, plus a new filter every year or whatever.  And you can just run them when you need them.  They can generate litres and litres of water a day.

Heatpumps, panels, AWG, greywater systems, electric cars, etc. are my ticket to freedom from attachment to oil companies, profiteering utilities, outright corruption, dependence on a cable or a pipe coming into my house, and being able to stick two fingers up to arseholes trying to charge me for the privilege of openly polluting my environment.

FYI:  My solar system and batteries has rode out many power cuts, far more reliably than the grid.  My grid electricity has been off for over 1% of this year.  And I live not far from London.  I know, because I have a smart meter and all the monitoring devices myself to run the stats.  SSE say "We're cutting off your power" and... that's it... I have no power that day.  Or the lights flicker and then go off for a few hours for an "unexpected outage".  I get nothing back for that.  They can just do that, over and over and over again without consequence.

And then my solar/batteries just automatically kicks in and I don't even notice any more.  And I've paid THEM absolutely nothing for that.  I've rewarded only the companies that helped me become independent, not the ones who think I have no choice but to suffer it.

And AWGs are the same.  I can use them to water my plants, irrigate my lawn, wash my face, make drinks, etc.  If I store enough I can use it to run appliances.  Not because the tap water isn't there or isn't sanitary... but because I have to pay for the tap water (I have a smart meter for that too... so I pay per litre that I use... my water bill is absolutely minimal!  90% reduction from the previous guy who lived here!).

And if I'm going to have to pay for it... I would rather give my money to an AWG company that's trying to help me be independent, and use my surplus solar power to run it, and get free water, and lessen or eliminate my water bill entirely.

So… we gots what plants need?

The restraint bars have multiple ratchet locks. If it pops one the next week still hold, unless you're a very large rider who is only on the last lock. If you are that rider the car won't be leaving the station unless you get off again.

Oddly enough I went from working in a legal/compliance team to being a web developer in 2007. There's definitely an overlap to the way it all works, with definitions and a lot of "if/then" logic, cross-referencing between paragraphs etc.

The two areas sort of "rhyme" - I often think of law and legal documents as the "software" our society runs on.

People are giving many many answers, but I think the most correct answer is "there isn't". Your question is general, and in general, there isn't, look at China for example. In the US, sure, it's because of the appeals process people mention, and that process exists due to US politics, it's not some universal feature of justice systems.

Not stated but part of the equation: women selecting taller men to reduce the punnet square oopsie of birthing a manlet.

Because execution, once completed, is a bitch to rescind.

It is probably too short a time for genetics to play a big role, so it's likely to be nutrition mainly. But if women selectively date tall men (and some do) then those men are more likely to pass on the genes for being tall.

It's a computer simulation. Everything is just a bunch of numbers. A single particle would be 7 numbers, 3 for its xyz position, 3 for its xyz velocity, and 1 for its mass.

Prison is neither punishment nor reform, it's not even deterrence, it's incapacitation.

This is the same as asking “why do people in the Alaskan wilderness hunt for food? Don’t they know that you can get ham at the grocery store?”

Water is necessary for life. If you need some and don’t have any, you don’t care about energy cost

Ability to get nutrition and ability to sleep.  Also genetics. 

Nutrition for your building blocks

Sleep for your growth hormone (and other hormone) cycles, and actual recovery/ building. 

There will always be outliers. Idk about Wemby, who as far as I know doesn't have any conditions, but some other people can have pituitary issues... others can have Marfan Syndrome (which is a genetic issues where you make weird connective tissue and you kinda end up with long body parts and really flexible joints. )

And then if you keep adding the little atoms then eventually there are more than the gaps, they push the bigger iron atoms apart, and it breaks more easily again? Would that be an accurate continuation of the analogy?

More food. Better food. More healthcare better healthcare. 

Less starvation, less disease. Babies grow more when not hungry or sick.

The Planck length is the length value that pops out if you use Planck units. Planck units are a system of units of measurement that's not based on human made artifacts like the kilogram or meters or feet, but physical constants like the speed of light. If you multiply or divide these constants in various combinations you get numbers with different units. These are the derived units. While the physical constants used in the Planck scale are significant, the derived units don't have to be. Other Planck units are, for example, the Planck energy which is about 2 GJ, about the energy in a car tank full of gas. In this sense, there's nothing necessarily significant or important about the Planck length.

In some physical theories, you find that the theory predicts that at or near the Planck length scale, unusual things happen. For instance gravity becomes just as strong as the strong nuclear force (which keeps atomic nuclei bound together). This is a problem for physics theories to be able to model, because as of right now we have no consistent theory that unifies gravity with the other forces. 

Other more advanced theories speculate about a lot of other things that could be happening at the Planck scale, like that somehow our universe is made up of a kind of 'foam' at this scale. But as of right now, these are all speculations and we can't test them.

So really it's just more that our ability to predict what will happen in an experiment breaks down, not that this is some limit of reality, necessarily.

My uncle ran a very profitable moisture farm on Tatooine.

It’s mostly nutrition, especially as you’re growing. In the 1900s people were a lot more poorly nourished than now and so the energy they had was put into keeping them alive more than growing them.

Nutrition! We have access to more, and healthier food during childhood and puberty, so we grow taller during those years.

There is more food available to people and more diverse choice of food. When people eat well they grow better than when they have nutritional deficiency

It’s the length below which our current understanding of physics completely breaks down (but you already knew that)

How far a naughty pirate goes on his last walk? 😜

Planck length (or scale) on the other hand is where you need to change how you measure things, or how you think about measuring things.

I'd not say our current understanding of physics breaks down, more it is where it gets too complicated to ELI5.

Let's say you're doing school level physics, it comes with a load of "ignore air resistance" and "imagine a force acting on a point", you can't keep doing that at all scales.

At some point you can't ignore things without gross error. Everything matters now, and everything interacts.

You can't ignore the ant's gravitation force is pulling on the Earth, etc. you no longer get to make easy models of situations.

The gravity of your ruler's (📏 not 👑) atoms are having a big effect on what you're measuring.

This is likely pretty bad, I'm not a physicist. But I'm not sure one can easily ELI5 concepts that are super out there in niche high end physics!

The markets are smaller and so can be bought and either repurposed as something else or rebranded as another market store. I've seen one go from a Kroger Plus to a Harbor Freight, for example.

Planck \*

Named after Max Planck,  a German theoretical physicist.

Hello jaqueevice,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

There isn't a real definition of how they are built and it is more about performance.

A common way to create a super computer is to just hook up a bunch of "normal" computers together. Of course the hooking computers together is a very complicated field in its own right. But usually you get a super computer not be purpose building something special, but by using off the shelf parts in large numbers and doing magic with wires and software on them.

Supercomputers come in many forms but it is more about the end result than how they are made. It is all about the ability to crunch numbers and get performance that makes a computer a supercomputer.

Perfomance is measured in FLOPS (Floating Point Operations per second). A floating point operation is a very basic operation that your computer does a lot of and that other more complex calculations are made up out of.

There is a list of the TOP500 fastest computer published twice a year and an updated list is due this month, but the list from last November can be found here:

The fastest computer on that list is capable of 1,809.00 PetaFLOPS  (peta- means quadrillion aka one million billions)

The slowest computer on that list is capable of 2.57 PetaFLOPS

  
The CPU in your computer at home won't be very good at this, but your GPU is. A cheap GPU will have performance measured in dozens of TeraFLOPS (tera- means a trillion or one thousandth of a peta-). 

A high end graphic card like a "NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5090 32GB" has a performance of 200 Teraflops or 0.2 PetaFlops.

A normal gaming PC with such a GPU would have enough power that 20 years ago it would have been in second place on the list of the TOP500 supercomputers in the world.

They have a point. I already knew that physics breaks down, but that's it. This thread contains a good answer about black holes etc.

What OP should have asked: 

"What is plank length and what happens below? I've heard it's the length below which our current understanding of physics completely breaks down, but what exactly breaks?"

Going to try to keep this simple for the nature of the sub.

Light is energy. And energy and mass are equivalent.

If you want to observe something, you need to bounce light off of it. Specifically, a photon, which you can imagine as the smallest unit if light. Some photons have long wave lengths and low energy, some have short wavelengths and high energy. Smaller things need smaller wavelengths of light to observe.

The Planck Length is the wavelength of the smallest photon you could produce to observe something before the energy of that photon created a tiny black hole. The mass of that blackhole would be a Planck Mass, and the length of time it takes to travel a Planck Length at the speed of light is Planck Time.

So what this isn't saying is that things with less mass, length or time can't exist. It's simply the smallest units we can resolve by directly observing them.

Planck Length is part of a system of units where a lot of natural constants (like the speed of light) become 1. It doesn't have any special meaning beyond that. We don't know what happens below it because the smallest length that has any practical meaning in physics is *orders of magnitude larger*.

Not all Planck units are impractically large or small though; 1 Planck Energy is what you get from burning roughly 50 liters of gasoline. Or from one single photon whose wavelength is 1 Planck Length.

It's what scientists theorize as the smallest possible measurement of distance. 

If we ever wanted to measure something smaller than that, we would need some kind of measurement with a wavelength smaller than the Planck length. Shorter wavelength means higher energy. And a wavelength smaller than the Planck length would, as far as we know, cram enough energy into a small space to create a black hole.

There could well be things smaller than that (string theory for example speculates that the universe is made of tiny vibrating strings around the size of the Planck length). But we have no way to measure anything that small so we don't know.

In quantum theory particles behave like waves. The length of the wave (peak to peak) is related to the mass of the particle. 

In gravitational theory a dense-enough mass creates an object that light can't escape from - a black hole.

A black hole doesn't have to be large, it just has to be enough mass in a small volume. If that volume is really small, close to its quantum theory wavelength, well that's where we have to combine quantum theory and gravitational theory. That wavelength is around the Planck length.

What happens below? Well, we don't know, there's a note on Wikipedia with a mention of a possibility that if you try and measure distances below the Planck length you just create a mini black hole, because measurement requires energy and at that scale the energy goes into making a bubble of space-time...

But anyway, another ELI5 that's impossible to really ELY5.

Please make an atmosphere beer generator

\>>I already understand everything there is to know about this, so please don't tell me anything humankind has not discovered before

Top 5 worst post I have ever seen on this website

Employment needs and skill needs are not always matched. And some jobs require specific training or formal education which can create bottle necks in filling those roles.

You literally just answered your own question.  Our science just isn’t good enough to answer these questions to any satisfactory degree

We experience our world with our eyes. Eyes are using light to see things. 
Light is partly like a wave. Color is how high and how long the wave is. The eyes can see how high and long the wave is. But only in a certain value range. If the wave gets to small for our eyes, we invented microscopes to still see it.

But! If something is so small, that the wave can't be made any smaller than the thing you want to look at, the wave will just miss it. So you can't observe it.

So the plank length is directly related to the "size of light". If we want to "see" smaller things, we would need to use another thing than light to observe it.

Yep. 3 points along a line is still a one dimensional space.

Shouts out big Clive

From our understanding of physics, we know wavelength is related to energy. So for example a radio wave is really long and has low energy. While visible light is really short and has high energy. Go higher and you get ionising UV and gamma rays.

Now we also know that energy and mass are related. This includes making gravity.

And thirdly we know that there are black holes. Regions where gravity is so intense that light can't escape. Although our understanding of them is incomplete.

Put all that together and you could imagine that some wave has a really short wavelength, and the energy compared to its wavelength keeps going up. At some point we would include that the energy density is so great that the whole wavelength is within a black hole.

This is something that doesn't make much sense according to our physics, and so its just an example of where our current models wouldn't work

Hey guys I have 2 apples then get 2 more apples, how many apples do I have? Please don't say it's 4 apples (I already know that)

I wish there was like an at-home experiment I could do that could help me understand this

You can, sort of. Take a clear glass/crystal sphere, like you get at a ren fair or farmers market, and put a rubber band around it like the equator of a globe and tip the sphere up and down. You will see the rubber band across the front clearly but you will also see a refracted image of the rubber band sliding up and down the 'sides' of the sphere. It's not exactly the same but the effect might be helpful.

This is entirely down to poorly made chargers and children being smaller. Modern USB (c) should give off a tiny amount of power as it waits to detect what is plugged into it then deliver what that device needs 

Older chargers don't do this and constantly provide the power they're designed for. Usually around 5 volts. But if something is broken in the charger it delivers much more or all it's power directly to the plug or even on some cases the metal case of a phone. 

So the eli5:

Imagine a bucket of water which has a hole in the side. Volts is the size of that hole limiting the speed water comes out. The other part to consider is amps which is how much water is in that bucket. This also means that if you had a huge bucket with a tiny hole the pressure would push it out faster. 

Back to chargers though. They rely on some level of a transformer that "tranforms" your houses bucket of power which is an infinite size bucket with a massive hole and turns it into a small bucket with a small hole. 

But if that bucket is badly made over time bits of the small hole start to fall off around the stream coming out of it and it cracks and breaks more and more water can come out faster.

Another important part is earthing. So if you move out of the way of the bucket then it's just squirting out water  and watering the plants and making a stream and hitting the earth. Not a problem. But if you stand in the way or touch it you get wet. If the hole is big enough and the water powerful enough it might hurt or knock you over. Children are more susceptible to this because they're nearer the ground and have less weight to knock over.

Kind of opposite of what you've asked, but there are some grades of cast iron that are very brittle and quite soft.

What kind of answer are you expecting then? You just wrote it yourself we don't know.

Not sure what you mean by “could define a segment and a plane leaving it ambiguous”. The ambiguity of 2 points defining a plane doesn’t really have anything to do with the fact that it also defines a segment. Work your way up and you’ll see why 3 points exactly define a plane. If I have zero points to fix my plane to, the plane can go anywhere. I can rotate it and translate it around no problem. If I have one point that I must fix my plane to, I can rotate it in all directions about that fixed point. If I have two points that I must fix my plane to, I can rotate it in one direction, about the straight line defined by those two points. If I have three points now, I can no longer rotate the plane at all. Every time I added a point, I removed a degree of freedom for moving my plane. Therefore with those three points there is one and only one plane that can pass through all 3 points, thus we can define the plane by them, uniquely.

The caveat that they must be non-collinear is because at that third step, where we fixed that last degree of rotation, if we had of added the point on the line about which the plane was rotating, we wouldn’t have restricted it at all, as those points on the plane were already not moving because of the two points that we already had. We must add the point somewhere else on a point that the plane is not rotating about to actually fix its rotation, hence why it must be non-collinear

If you already know that, what kind of meaningful answer are you expecting?

If our current understanding breaks down, it follows that there is no current understanding of it. We don't even know if any understanding of it is possible.

i mean… it’s 2 points. and they are being used to develop a plane. We just need to agree on the rules of the definition. To “define” does not require you to ensure they will later be included in the plane.

But very very very simply: physics simulations track everything. 

Is this very widespread? For a very simple particles in a well, you'd never track the actual particles, you'd use a high level analysis and use monte carlo or something.

We are talking about something like this:  

Those are just for normal cars.

Well can't use those for repo because it takes a few minutes to get the car hooked and on the truck.

But then again we don't have the whole repo process at least here in Germany.

i got shocked once or twice by our vacuum charger after taking it out of the socket.

If you are interested the channel name was Big Clive. It's been a hot minute since I watched any of his stuff but I always found it rather educational.

Somewhat off-topic, but still on-topic: the biggest reason people in trades don’t go the whole nine yards is because codes are written in “legalese”

As someone with a B.Comm degree that involved a healthy amount of Law courses and the dreaded MATH-113 (most failed/dropped course in the world), electrical code was no problem, but mathematical applications nearly had me beat despite me always being great simple math, or algebra, or calculus. It was the need to visualize (and convert) three dimensional diagrams 360° diagrams to a single formula that tripped me up.

My brother has been in and out of prison since he was 18. He's 44 now and there right now. No, I suppose I haven't.

It is still more life than death. Inmates play D&D ffs.

We almost never track particles at a low level like that. So say you just have a bunch of particles in a well and you want to describe how they behave, we wouldn't track each particle and see what happens using newtonian physics. We have maths that can describe properties as a whole and would use properties like temperature and pressure. So that kind of maths makes things much simpler to simulate. 

So most simulations of dark matter, would actually have the supercomputer solve a complex mathematical equation rather than trying to simulate each particle.

Okay? What point are you trying to make?

As someone who has worked tech support for schools, kids don't necessarily understand the danger of using faulty equipment. They might understand "don't stick a knife in the socket" (possibly -- see below) but they don't understand "faulty wiring can kill"

We had students put paper clips in power outlets, turn the outlet on, then kick the clip to make massive sparks. That's messing with 240v power, and while the breakers did trip, it's not going to be pleasant if you get shocked or if the breakers are faulty or whatever.

Likewise, we had students come up and ask why their chargers weren't working for their laptops, only to see that there's exposed wiring, bent cables, and stuff literally held together with tape. 

Kids might be getting shocked because they're just not aware of what's safe to handle. Also, if they're running around a lot in a dry winter, they might be getting static shocks when they touch stuff. I've had static shocks that have been big enough and painful enough for me to hear the "click" as the spark jumps the gap between the metal and my finger

Modern floor tiles are rectified, meaning they have been sanded or cut down to match precise dimensions, allowing setting them with thin grout lines. Thin grout lines are desirable for tiles because grout can gather dust and mold with time, increasing maintenance.

Bricks, on the other hand, have less uniform dimensions and often need reinforcing steel to be laid between them to prevent cracking, and these reinforcements require space between the bricks. The thicker grout lines are also needed to even out the unevenness of the bricks themselves. Many modern construction blocks with tighter tolerances can be laid with thin set mortar with grout lines around 1-3 mm thick.

Phone chargers such as USB-C typically don't have the power pins in a place where you could easily touch them. Even if you could, most of them supply like 5 or 10 volts which isn't enough to pass the resistance of skin and certainly isn't enough to be harmful. Stick it to your tongue and you might feel something (though I wouldn't recommend it, it's probably not going to be harmful.) Some chargers can supply higher voltage for fast charging, but they don't do that automatically, they wait for a "handshake" with the receiving device to make sure the receiving device can make use of it. 

I'm not sure what you're referring to "about kids getting electrocuted." A typical phone charger is not going to be electrocuting anybody unless it is broken or tampered to the point of basically just not being a charger anymroe and instead being a live wire

There are YouTube channels that open up electronics, trace out their circuits, and determine how they operate. Things like cheap USB chargers are notorious for having simple designs that are prone to failure modes that result in wall voltages being shoveled into a USB cable. 

There is a reason some chargers cost a few dollars and some cost 10x the price, it's usually because the more expensive ones are built to a higher standard that requires more safety. 

Your charger should never shock you and if it does you shouldn't mess around, throw it out and buy a new one built by a brand with a reputation for quality they don't want to lose.

Chargers must never allow any dangerous voltages to appear at the output. It‘s their main purpose other than not catching fire and outputting voltage.
There are numerous safety regulations and mechanisms in place to prevent dangerous voltages from appearing on the output and hurting people.

Sadly, cheap no-name chargers are pretty common and often lack a lot of these features. If they suffer a catastrophic internal fault, dangerous voltages can make their way to the output, then to the device and then hurt the user. 

You can find teardown videos of people showing the insides of good and bad chargers on YouTube. 
The difference is often as simple as a proper isolation barrier (thick tape, more distance, etc.) between the dangerous and non-dangerous parts of the electronics.

Electrocution means “death by electricity.” Are you actually referencing kids dying from phone charger shock or are you using the word casually to just mean shock?

if the moisture on your skin is right I think you can feel a little tickle sometimes. I’ve definitely laid on top of one bare-skinned by accident and felt a mild shock

Any solution for getting a car parked multiple levels deep in a low clearance underground parking garage that you can't get a tow truck into?

I saw a product demo video with these really cool drone dollies, one for each wheel, they slipped underneath, lifted the wheels enough to move, and carried the car out in seconds.

a defective and low quality one might.

Source for kids getting electrocuted by phone chargers? Like to read it

a mobile phone charger shouldn't shock you or your kids

Have you spent even 12 hours in jail?  Like even an Aussie jail?  

Theres a lot of idealism in what you say and little in the way of reality. If you could get a doctorate, but you had to get it while EXISTING in an elevator car and never be able to apply that knowledge, is it worth it?  Is that “living a life”?

First, you need to understand the sort of problem a supercomputer is used to solve. Initially, they were used to model nuclear weapon detonation using a system called *hydrocodes*. To do this, the programmers would split up regions of 3D space and then run through each region doing lots of floating point calculations. Then a separate pass would calculate the boundary interactions. From this, we get the idea of parallel computing units doing lots of floating point calculations, each working on their part of the problem, and then all providing part of the answer. 
 
The first supercomputer designed by Cray had modules consisting of a general purpose CPU with memory, and Vector Processing Units that just did floating point mathematical operations on vectors (basically a 2 or 3 dimensional coordinate). All the cabling connecting CPU and VPUs was exactly the same length, and the modules all linked up in the middle with cooling systems. These days, we can use GPUs which will do floating point mathematical operations on matrices (multiple vectors at once), and the CPUs manage memory and communication.  
 
In 2010, the US Air Force built a supercomputer using 1200 PS3 games consoles networked together running linux. Commodity hardware in bulk.  
 
A modern supercomputer is much the same. Hundreds or thousands of individual compute nodes with GPUs providing floating point mathematical capabilities. Commodity network equipment to connect the nodes. Some coordination nodes that split up the problem and schedule them on the compute nodes, and marshal the results on to storage nodes. There are specific tools to do this, and people build low power "supercomputers" using Raspberry Pi clusters. But put enough of them together and you can get some real performance.  
 
The real job lies with the programmers that develop the software that can just work on a small part of a much bigger problem, create some results, maybe coordinate with neighboring nodes, and then report back in a way that allows a coherent result to be provided. That really is the hard part.

The answer has many aspects to it

Modern floor tiles are rectified, meaning they have been sanded or cut down to match precise dimensions, allowing the sett

My argument is that there is nothing better about living in a box versus being executed. Some people get fucked over and I don't think it's any more just or unjust for them to live out decades in a place they should not be just to die in there vs being executed unjustly.  

Call it pragmatism but Id rather be killed unjustly than live in injustice conditions for decades on end

Yeah, the little button to enable shifting broke on a friends car, fortunately I was able to disassemble the gear shift lever to override it before it ran out of gas.

One of the most likely uses is going be to emergency water supplies. To safely consume water from rivers or lakes requires processing, which means energy. Depending on the likely contamination, the process can vary from fairly boiling to reverse osmosis to distillation. When you reach those later requirements, the processing may well be more energy intensive than capturing water from the air. The military is more likely to reach those, given an enemy may actively attempt to make water sources unusable.

Given that an air conditioner innately acts as a water generator as a byproduct, it may well be worth designing the system to capture the water it’ll produce. The basic method of most atmospheric watering generators are just air conditioners that capture the water rather than cooling stuff. Combining both is likely to be more efficient in many cases.

Distillation of water is basically an atmospheric water generator where you are adding water to the air before capturing it back out. Such is great for desalination when the only accessible water is salt water.

Longer term, there is some possibility of using such systems in space exploration. Even without obvious surface or readily accessible subsurface water, there may be sufficient atmospheric moisture to make capture viable. Similarly, it could be used to help capture evaporation in greenhouses, bathrooms, kitchens, and other moist environments.

A plane perpendicular to the line between two points and equidistant between the points is rigorously defined. What it is not is rigorously defined *by two points alone*. There's a third piece of information.

The real TIL is people have been theorising about why tennis has a weird scoring system for nearly 500 years

One of the most likely uses is going be to emergency water supplies. To safely consume water from rivers or lakes requires processing, which means energy. Depending on the likely contamination, the process can vary from fairly boiling to reverse osmosis to distillation. When you reach those later requirements, the processing may well be more energy intensive than capturing water from the air.

Given that an air conditioner innately acts as a water generator as a byproduct, it may well be worth designing the system to capture the water it’ll produce. The basic method of most atmospheric watering generators are just air conditioners that capture the water rather than cooling stuff. Combining both is likely to be more efficient in many cases.

if I was king too big to fail would be too big to exist and trigger an automatic breakup

What´s the argument you´re trying to make here? Obviously any wrongful conviction sucks, but as long as society has a need for prisons, we have to strive to mitigate the possible consequences, ie. not executing people.

To give the condemned every opportunity to prove his innocence through appeals.  You can't go back once you end someone's life, so they want to be as sure as possible before pulling the switch.

Tiles don't support weight. Bricks do. That's all their really is to it. As such their used as a finish over something structural.

Because grout and mortar are two separate materials with two different properties.

You are right that it is an extra constraint, but it is not a constraint you have to repeat. What I mean is that if you need to store 1000 plane definitions on a computer, you don't need 9000 values. (3 points \* 3 axes \* 1000 planes), but you can do it with 6000 values and one instruction.

In fact, you can define the point on the plane closest to the origin. That also completely constrains a plane because that plane is then always normal to the vector. So the very minimum amount of values needed to store 1000 plane definitions is 3000  values + 1 instruction.

If you died in prison the day before execution, would that make it better than being unjustly executed?  Thats life without parole.

You know some people still live lives in prison right? People get degrees and all sorts of things.

Is this a case of American defaultism? I'm Australian dude.

And, I don't think you know what I think. So...

Oh well.

Basically picking up condensation from an AC ?

Well incarceration is also punishment, if you do wrong you get punished BUT we also would like you to learn from said punishment. My issue and the question Im posing is that there is a non zero amount of people being punished, killing them is the big shiny ring to focus on, but what about 10 years for something you can't prove your way out of? Then it's 20 and 40 and life. 

How do you rehabilitate someone that doesn't need it?  I can tell thaty point has flown over your head, but death isn't the worst of it, Id argue 10 years is. Just long enough to ruin your life and short enough to suffer from it for whats left.

The comment you replied to is in answer to OP's question, it obviously inherits the context OP stated.

The city of Chicago caused 5k in damages to various parts of my car last year when I got towed.

Technically the city is on the hook for it, but you have to go through the city, get 3 separate quotes for damages within 30 days, and then go through a process where they, themselves, determine if they were at fault, and choose how much to pay.

There are often ways to tow a vehicle without damaging it, but bigger cities are a lot less likely to care to do so, and instead lean on techniques that make it difficult for owners to recoup their losses.

But then it's two points plus an additional constraint. If you allow that, you can also do it with one point or even zero points. 

For two points, (x0, y0, z0) and (x1, y1, z1) you added the constraint that all points on the plane obey (x-x0)\^2 + (y-y0)\^2 + (z-z0)\^2 =(x-x1)\^2 + (y-y1)\^2 + (z-z1)\^2

This is equivalent to -2x\*x0 + x0\^2 -2y\*y0 + y0\^2 -2z\*z0 + z0\^2 = -2x\*x1 + x1\^2 -2y\*y1 + y1\^2 -2z\*z1 + z1\^2, which you can rewrite in the form a\*x + b\*y + c\*z = d, which is just the plane equation.

For "zero points", you can just use that plane equation, but you have to specify a, b, c and d (you can't choose those independently, though, as there are still only 3 degrees of freedom so not all sets of 4 coefficients satisfy the equation). Or you can specify any vector that is normal to the plane.

For one point, you have to define a function with two parameters that specifies how the (signed) distance to that point depends on (x,y,z). You can construct this by choosing coefficients for the plane equation, then choosing any point in R\^3, and then writing out the equation for the distance between that point and the points on your plane.

I work in the supercomputing field, and we prefer to call it the "parallel and distributed computing" field for this reason.  Defining what exactly counts as a supercomputer is impossible, especially since the field has switched to supercomputing clusters where each individual "node" is just a normal top-of-the-line computer that no one would call a supercomputer, but there are 1000 of them in the same room on a high speed network.

Because of this, individual supercomputers have basically disappeared, its all computing clusters now.  Individual nodes work just like normal computers, but tend to have more cpu cores, more ram, and occasionally MULTIPLE high power GPUs.  Other than that, they arent really special and are still general purpose.  What you may be thinking of is ASIC machines, they ARE specific purpose built machines, which does make them faster for their power consumption, but its not necessarily a supercomputer.

Interesting, I have the same thing but never understood it. Time in general seems to run faster in the morning. Like I wake up and take a sip of coffee and somehow an hour has passed lol.

This actually is a thing.

In negative moods, your brain is typically more alert to external stimuli and processes them quicker which can create feelings of time dilation due to your brain processing a lot more stimuli at once. Being extremely tired can also activate the same regions of the brain which creates the same effect. 
The neurons in your brain can also become less active when tired which can slow processing of stimuli making it feel as if auditory signals are drawn out or lengthened. So both of these can combine to make music sound slower when tired. 

In positive moods the opposite happens and your brain becomes less engaged with external stimuli and processes things faster which can cause feelings of time contraction which is typically called a “flow state”. 

It also happens based off tempo of the song with faster tempo songs being perceived as shorter in length than a slow tempo song even if they’re the exact same length. Same goes for whether a music piece itself is “happy” or “sad” with happy songs being perceived as being shorter.

they define an infinite amount of planes

though it's important to note that while they define infinitely many planes, they do not define all planes, but only those with a normal vector orthogonal to the line connecting the two points. a single line on the other hand does technically "define" all lines, which is the same as defining none

Hence why they said the video, you can actually see what the snake is doing quite clearly

Definitely a tween here

A supercomputer can be as simple as just a lot of regular computers (servers) that have some kind of high speed network fabric between them, and some way to coordinate/schedule work between them

The scale you need to be considered "super" isn't rigorously defined (as far as I know), but it's a pretty high bar to clear and always growing

My datacenter has around 200,000 cpu cores, and we're not considered a super computer this day and age, or would claim to be one. Even though this is on the same order as the number 1 supercomputer from 2010.

Computing grows exponentially, and the stuff being built now is insane

For your comparison, a top of the line general computer a person might own could top out at a couple dozen cpu cores and maybe 128GB of memory for a few thousand dollars. A top of the line single server could sport dual socket 192 core cpus and about 3TB of memory (about $100k for one of these by the way...)

Supercomputers these days can have millions of cpu cores and many Petabytes of memory (a petabyte is 1000 terabytes, or 1 million gigabytes). Now we're talking hundreds of millions of dollars to build one of these

They still are, but they used to, too

Yes I am :)

I'm university professor in the United States now.

I don't think this is the gotcha comment you think it is

Disclaimer: this is purely anecdotal.

Not sure if it is tied to my mood, but I have indeed noticed that my 'internal clock' doesn't always seem to run at the same speed. I play drums as a hobby and I use a click track (fancy metronome) to make sure I hold the correct tempo. Some tracks feel like they are at the edge of my abilities, speedwise, when we rehearse them, but those same tracks have had me double-checking my click track settings during a gig because the tempo felt noticeably slower than during the rehearsals. I think it is linked to how 'pumped' I am feeling; during a gig most people have a natural 'nervous tention' as a result of the situation they are in: excited to perform, lots of eyes are on you, and you want to play at your best. And it is that tention that causes your body to release certain chemicals that allow you to make decisions faster and act faster, which in turn can make it feel like everything else is moving at a slower speed.

you can see them slither in place

one of my favourite videos - a ball python on a microfibre blanket

you can see them slither in place

one of my favourite videos - a ball python on a microfibre blanket

I dunno about you, but I still have my legs, if I get in to a sleeping bag...

'Supercomputer' is a vague term with no concrete criteria. Basically, any computer with performance that far exceeds general use can be considered a supercomputer.

Modern supercomputers are usually composed of thousands of individual computers (i.e. nodes) connected together through a low-latency, high-bandwidth network.

Supercomputers are not inherently specialized. It's just that generic usage is inefficient and a waste of a supercomputer's capabilities. Powering and maintaining a supercomputer costs way too much money to be using it like a standard desktop PC.

Nah. I dont take any meds

We worked on this research at my last employer. The biggest user of these, at least at first, will likely be militaries so they don't have to carry water with them or constantly move near bodies of water. After that think of how many people in places like Africa and India that do not have regular access to clean drinking water but could use one of these and a small solar panel setup to generate all the potable water they'd ever need.

**PLEASE READ THIS ENTIRE MESSAGE**
Your submission has been removed because questions politics, political actions and political legal questions are all prohibited by Rule 2.

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

A snake is a long muscle tube, like a slinky. If you pull the slinky apart and fixate the front end on the ground, i.e. the head, the other parts are going to contract towards the head, moving the back towards the front. Now fixate the back, pull the slinky towards a direction, and repeat. 

A snake won't "pull" itself apart, rather pushes the front forward, but the basic idea of the motion is the same. Also, it's more like a series of many small slinkies so it looks like a continuous slithering movement.

Wikipedia doesn’t explain like I’m five

That´s why I said to some small extent, there is no way whatsoever a wrongful execution can be made right.

Supercomputers are basically just very fast and powerful computers. They're designed to perform operations extremely fast, usually to perform a fuckton of data processing or simulation that would take a standard PC far too long to be usable.  Not all supercomputers are tailored to a specific application, but there are some. The difference in performance from PCs is huge, but supercomputers are also massive. Like they literally take up a room of space, they're physically much bigger than consumer PCs.

Basically imagine each individual loan as a single card. Banks have thousands of cards each, so they pack them into decks and sold those decks. If you buy a deck, this means money from payments on those loans get redirected to you instead of the bank taking them.

Because banks can mix and match the cards (loans) that go into a deck (mortgage backed securities), banks can put in a few bad cards and cover it up with many good cards. In theory, if the bad cards go bust, the good cards can cover the losses. Except that as we got closer to 2008, turns out those good cards were in fact bad cards and the people who are supposed to say whether the decks are good or bad overall (credit rating agencies) have been paid off to say they are all good

How do you reverse the person that dies in prison and was innocent?

Supercomputers are generally a cluster of interconnected computers. Servers / PCs are usually single computers.

There are limits on how much resources you can cram into a single computer. At some point two weak computers are cheaper than one strong computer resulting in the same performance.

Supercomputers take that to the next level by clustering hundreds if not thousands of computers together.

Now you can't just slap 10 PCs together and expect 10x the performance for everyday workloads. Like programs/games have to be designed to use multiple CPU cores, anything running on supercomputers also have to be designed to split workloads across multiple machines. 

It doesn't make any sense to modify something like Excel Spreadsheets to run on a supercomouter. So you will indeed find that they don't run everyday software. 
Instead they're made to run difficult tasks such as weather forecasts, which relies on tons of data and simulating the global weather based on that to some accuracy.

How can you be compensated for losing decades of your life?  All the couldves that didnt. Say you are released, given a limitless credit card but youre 85 and been in prison for 50 years, how were you compensated if you die shortly after release after having the best years of your life taken from you?

Snakes move in a few ways but the main one is pushing off the terrain like we do, just in sort of a continuous rolling way. Their scales have good traction so if they push down more in one spot and less in others they can push off using one part while letting the other slide freely.

This is analogous to but hard to compare to a human walking since we move with two points touching the ground and not thirty. If you put a snake on a really low friction surface you can see them slither in place though if they can't get a grip. 

They can also hop sideways, move like a caterpillar, and climb a bit like an accordion for special situations.

Same way you move in a sleeping bag on the floor

I had an SGI Origin 2000 for a while. I remember it was a bunch of low clock cores, a slice came with 8 cpus, and we bridged 3 i think, giving us 24 cores? 16gb ram...

Clock speed wise these are lower clock machines with massive parallelism. As you could collect closets of this stuff and connect them you'd basically end up with one machine and thousands of cpus, terabytes of memory

As a single node, any 8 core laptop today probablly matches the experience of a filled origin rack, but we can't hotwire it into a bigger machine we could call a supercomputer

Or we could like rehabilitate criminals instead of torture them mentally, but yeah that's really unpopular for emotional reasons around here (my family)

In Moscow they always lift the car and put it onto a bigger truck. Wherever the wheels are directed doesn't matter.

Supercomputers perform operations about 100 thousand to 10 million times faster than your desktop. 

Nowadays they use same x86-64 instruction sets as regular computers or ARM sets as phone/embedded processors. Mostly they're specialized for computations in labs somewhere though technically they could run anything.
 
But I think the server of EVE Online was appearing in the supercomputer rankings occasionally.

Hence why I said the video, you can actually see what the snake is doing quite clearly

"Supercomputer" isn't a rigid term, and each one is basically unique, so talking about them as a group is hard. 

For the most part, they are made with broadly the same components you find in consumer grade computers, just bigger, more reliable, and a lot more expensive. Depending on the task, you can even build a supercomputer out of a series of personal computers (you can check out Folding @ Home for an example of this). 

For a quick and dirty size comparison, a high end consumer graphics card can do maybe 100 TeraFLOPS (what a FLOPS is is complicated, but it's a way of measuring computing performance), while a typical supercomputer clocks in at hundred of PetaFLOPS, or over a thousand times faster.

Wikipedia doesn’t explain like I’m five

yeah basically you'd just get random results until you could actually measure what you were making. that's the real leap.

No they just slowly kill you in one way and get it over with faster with the other. There will be a time when youre old enough that you understand that time is all you have and when enough of it is taken from you, you dont gain anything from the rest. 

Im am anti death penalty for the reason you are, but Im also anti lwop without incontrovertible evidence and if it’s incontrovertible, I think voluntary execution should be available. If there is zero question you commited a capital offense the dp should be available. We are talking video evidence of you shooting a store clerk in the face kind of incontrovertible. Like thats you, you did it. 

But there is no upside to a Pyrrhic victory. So you are exonerated the day before you die, does it really matter?

The video on this Wikipedia page is pretty self explanatory

Do you happen to take depressants before listening to music when you’re tired?

Would get a bit precarious on the ramps.

I've seen people tow cars on a strap up and down hill on I70 on a 6%+ grade from Morrison.  It would absolutely be no problem for a small pickup or car to pull another car around the ramps in a garage.

Well. You could also be a good company to work for and pay a decent, but not spectacular, wage? Most of my colleagues, including me, could earn somewhere else. Yet, we work at a good company with decent leadership so everyone is happy to pay a little bit for their mental health sake.

Because otherwise we're gonna have to move a lot of cars"

A repo absolutely would not be allowed to move "a lot of cars" that are not being repoed in a private lot to get to a repo.  Nor would they want to since that wouldn't be remotely cost effective.

it’s global.

on your computer, the motherboard is at the center and talks to every component. You simply have to plug your display into it (or you graphic card, but i’m trying to stay simple) and everything works.

Supercomputer are different. Instead of everything being together in a box, everything is separated. There’s gonna racks and racks of storage, racks and racks of graphic cards, rack and racks of processor. Everything is interlinked with magic, hardware and software, but because of the way it’s built and managed you can’t simply open windows and play a game.

In many cases, modern supercomputers are just many server-grade machines with very fast network in between. 
This is especially the case since we learned that graphics cards are great in running a lot of math that we need to perform a lot of calculations.

The difference to your home computer ist just "more". More cores, more RAM, more bandwidth (network, internal bus ...), more machines.

One major case recently resulted in a total stay of the execution just as the man was about to be put to it. Sonny Burton, who robbed an Autozone in 1991 with five other people. One of those people killed a customer during the robbery, and Sonny was legally deemed the mastermind because he was there and convicted as though he had pulled the trigger himself. There was a petition in the weeks leading up to what was going to be his death date in March, then finally the current governor commuted the sentence.

He's still life in prison with no parole, but it was something. Most who actually get as far as having death dates aren't that lucky.

First thing that came to my mind.  "Park on flat ground whenever possible" 

Bro apparently things some people just seek out fills for fun or something.

Also because you literally cannot turn off many modern cars if you don't put the car in park.

Not everyone has the same morality you do. I have personally convinced people to stop supporting the death penalty because of the economic angle. They have no issue with the state killing people but they have even more of an issue with paying more for it then for locking them up forever. They aren’t total monsters though because they don’t want to get rid of the appeals that make it expensive because they still believe the system mostly gets it right but there need to be self correcting mechanisms like the appeals process in case there was an error. Many of them were pre-Trump Republicans and yes the economic angle worked best on them as bleak as that sounds to you or I

Thats not a thing. Go to a mental health professional

Yeah, that's probably one of the big ones. Documented humanity is only like 10% of humanity's existence. Before that being migratory/nomadic would be a big thing for many people. Being able to remember where a safe water source or food source is when you come back to an area six months to years later would be HUGELY beneficial.

Could two people provide almost identical therapy sessions, but one be licensed as a social worker and the other as a counselor?

The economic angle is a weak argument because most proponents would dispense with appeals altogether to cut costs. 

It’s just state sanctioned bloodlust

No way to know that you won't die riding a roller coaster. No way to know you won't die doing a lot of things.

That’s not why. It’s because they are trained so you hire them and now they are tied to you as you hold the paperwork to their immigration papers. So they can’t easily jump ship. Since you now have a sort of guarantee of loyalty, you might be more willing to invest money and time to train them, knowing they won’t just jump ship after the training. Also since they are tied to you, you might not give them a raise as incentive to stay.

The real mystery is whether the delay is a bug in the system or a feature.

Lots of reasons people have already said. Another one I didn’t see mentioned in some of the top comments is there can be a worker shortage, people can become qualified in those jobs, but there aren’t enough existing workers to train the new ones.

That was a big thing in my country around the time I finished high school. There was a huge push made for people to go into nursing, so a lot of people did. Except when they finished their degrees, they still couldn’t find work because there weren’t enough senior nurses to train the new ones.

I currently work in education. There’s never enough teachers or TAs at the school, because the school doesn’t want to pay for more staff, and when they do, the pay is so low for the work done that people would rather go elsewhere

Yes and the problem is that you spend the time and money to train someone and now that they are qualified for that job … they go elsewhere. Why? Because since they were untrained, they took your job at a lower pay because you were offering to train them. Now that they are trained, they can now apply for higher paying jobs that required trained candidates.

Seems alot of replies all make sense in here

Crazy how the difference between 'build a skyscraper with it and shatters like a biscuit' is basically a rounding error.

That makes sense haha

Thanks for this, very much appreciated.

I mean hes wrong there but I am a dad and he lives at home and goes out every weekend 🤣 where as ill just go local for 1 or 2

It's harder to find food and water if you live in a desert. 

So if it takes more energy than usual to get enough water/grow food, so be it.  

If there were profitable oil in said desert, then it would be worth it to spend extra resource to get the necessities of life there as opposed to importing if the payoff from living there justifies it.

Ah fair enough, thanks.

If you're into a little less academic and more historical nonfiction, I *love* the book Stuff by Ivan Amato. I ran across it completely by chance and couldn't put it down. I now own a copy and reread it every few years.

I'm not a materials scientist and never thought I had any real interest in it, but it's fascinating. Amato does an amazing job covering the subject in an approachable and engaging way.

The Arabian Peninsula has barely any freshwater sources, there are exactly 0 rivers, the underground freshwater sources are drying up fast and Oasis are rare and small. They have to do something about it. While fuel is dirt cheap for them as they have the largest oil reserves on the planet, it is just to far away to the next country with enough water to help out over 80 Million people. Thats why they use desalination on the coast and why I could imagine that Atmospheric Water Generators are usefull there aswell. They are basically AC Units that trap the condensation water. Power them with solar panels that are very usefull and cheap and you have a cheap and sustainable water source.

People cite both the higher legal burden AND the fact that it still doesn't prevent innocent people from being executed as reasons against the death penalty and they're completely justified in doing so. 

But if 4% of people (at minimum) are executed unjustly, how many more are rotting in a hole who will never get that level of resources dedicated to proving their innocence? It's chilling to think about.

using these things to generate absurd amounts of water for filling rivers? no, that would actually take unreasonable amounts of power for little benefit. 

using one of these for personal or household consumption? it’s definitely possible with a reasonable amount of solar panels

yes, solar power is that good, electricity still has decent costs because we haven’t actually built and distributed enough solar for it to become that cheap yet. the numbers, however, support it. 

i can go to google right now and buy a pallet full of 32x 550w solar panels for just over 6500usd, which is just under 40cents per watt of solar capacity. And solar panels easily last for a decade or two before needing replacement, which even then they can be recycled via industrial processes we know VERY well, because like 95%+ of a solar panel is just aluminum and glass

Good luck finding an open water source on Arrakis

to be a little clearer than the other comment by u/68_hi, the exact form of your sequence is:  
2 \* (1 - (-1/p\^2)\^n) / (p + (-1/p\^2)\^n / p)  
where n is the index in the sequence and p is the golden ratio: (1 + sqrt(5))/2 \~ 1.618

because these (-1/p\^2)\^n terms tend to zero very quickly, the sequence quickly converges to 2 \* (1 - 0)/(p + 0) or, 2/p \~ 1.236. you're seeing those early oscillations because of these same terms, though. because of the exponent, their signs alternate for each value in the sequence while the rest of the expression stays mostly the same.  
i.e. for n=1, you have:  
2 \* (1 + 0.382) / (1.618 - 0.618 \* 0.382)  
and for n=2, you have:  
2 \* (1 - 0.146) / (1.618 + 0.618 \* 0.146)  
so the values bounce back and forth around the final value of 2/p

For reasons that are somewhat complicated, the Fibonnaci sequence can also be expressed as 

(((1+sqrt(5))/2)^(n) \- ((1-sqrt(5))/2)^(n))/sqrt(5)

As the Fibbonaci sequence grows large the second subtraction becomes irrelevant and so it's about equal to (((1+sqrt(5))/2)^(n)/sqrt(5), meaning each term is (1+sqrt(5))/2 times bigger (or \~1.618). If you just care about how much faster 2^(n) grows compared to fibbonaci(n) that ends up being very simply 2/((1+sqrt(5))/2) = 2/1.618... = 1.2360679774997896964091736687313...

No, but they are temporarily removing their foreskin (pulling it back) to clean under there.

Atmospheric water generators don't have to use as much energy as you'd think, if the electricity isn't available. 

Many started off using similar technology as dehumidifiers which operate with the  ambient energy available.

To your second point, this is why all the off-grid areas of the world are thriving and why electricity is dirt cheap, right?  Turns out massive power draw absolutely matters and "power for free from the sun" is a giant overstatement, especially when you are talking about energy intensive devices or activities.

  
If it were as simple as you claim, we'd just be putting these things along with solar panels all along the West and the Colorado River would be filling Lake Mead up to the brim, but none of that shit is happening.

Yes, like I get worried if I push down on the lap bar while it’s going it’ll just release

Hot take. It’s an English thing to use arcane or obscure terminology to flush out newbies or expose outsiders. Like the ridiculous names they use for musical notes, or calling the most elite private schools ‘public’. 
I’m not saying this is the origin, but I am suggesting this is one reason it persisted.

The reason legalese and long contracts come into play is with your example above. 

What constitutes a laxative? Is that just mean an OTC medicinal laxative? What if they have a prescription? Does it include the sugar substitutes and things in fat free foods that make you poop? Do we count Taco Bell or Indian food? Is it anything that makes the child poop more than normal? What is baseline normal?

And then "not allowed to give their child a laxative and then send them to me". What is the timeline? Is that immediately before? Within 24 hours? That week?

There's an apocalyptic video game where one by one your family members are killed as they try to fetch the next day's drinking water from the closest source in a war zone. 

"Just drive a truck to the closest water source"  isn't universally feasible.  It implies that you have roads and fuel, for one thing.

Thank you, I’ll look at that channel

lol, of course it's the golden ratio!

Since you often give your colleague rides to work it’s likely you have come up in conversation between him and his mates. Because they had only heard about you but not actually met you, they were beginning to wonder if you actually existed. You were illusive. They were just making a joke.

the 0.2% to 2% jump is nuts. once you cram in enough carbon to form all that cementite the whole thing just turns into a brittle mess that cracks before it bends.

This helped relieve my anxiety a lot, thank you

"Elusive" means you *elude* people/events/situations -- you're not around much or are hard to find.
"Illusive" has the same root as *illusion* -- you're deceptive or difficult to read.

I'd presume they meant "elusive," but it's hard to know without more context.

An air conditioner does essentially the same thing, just discarding the water.

Why someone would use one depends greatly on the context and use case. There are many situations where it makes sense, and many others where it doesn't.

We sort of need more information here.

i know this is old but arent we saying literally the same thing?

Yes but I want to KNOW I won’t die

The fucked up thing isn't how expensive the death penalty is. It's how cheap lift is. Life in prison should also trigger the same appeals. If they sit there for even 10 years and then exonerated, their life is still screwed even if they're not dead

Here is a correct way to do it. Sorry for dailymotion link.

If his mate said that, it means he's talked about you to his mate but his mate had never met or seen you. 

"Elusive" means you're hard to find. 

So what he was saying was "Ah, so you're the girl he's talked about but I've never seen". It's a jokey thing that implies he's spoken a lot about you.

And in this context it almost certainly means that he fancies you.

They damage vehicles daily.  They don't care.  The law protects them.

He’s heard about you (probably from his friend or someone) but for whatever reason you aren’t around when he has a chance to meet you.

I have had a few people in my life (friends friends) who I knew about but didn’t actually meet for a while because when I would hang out with my friend they couldn’t hang out and vice versa where I would have an obligation and would end up missing an event that they were at.

while yes, AWGs pull a decent amount of energy for an amount of water, there’s a few major factors that make “just go drive to the water and bring it back” not the obvious better option always:

- firstly, AWGs are portable, and most other water sources are not. you can just put them anywhere and the amount of effort it would take to get water could be significantly reduced to “just take it out of the machine”, whereas in remote locations, such as deserts or mountainous areas, or even just areas with bad infrastructure (no roads/contaminated water) “just go and drive to the water” can be significantly harder if not impossible to do on any real scale
- secondly, they run off electricity, which we have learned to get for free. solar panel prices have gone down by orders of magnitude over the past few years to the point where the “massive power draw” doesn’t really matter too much, since you’re getting a bunch of power for free from the sun. most cars (or truck or whatnot) do not run on electricity.* which just inherently kinda makes them less sustainable in comparison

*i am aware of electric cars but realistically most situations where you’d want an AWG you generally won’t have electric vehicles larger than an e-bike

Aside from hand modelling images (and even in them sometimes) , in most hand images, the fingers are in vastly different positions, making it difficult for the AI to learn.  
On the other hand, (pun intended) the face and body are central parts of an image and hence easy to recreate.

They are very unreliable. If the area already has water yes you would probably be able to pull water from the air. I dry areas like deserts there is very little water in the air. So these devices can't generate any water in these areas.

Wait, do you think computers track actual dark matter out in space?

They are commonly called "dehumidifiers". People trying to get your money call them "Atmospheric Water Generators".

Unless there is no way to get a truck where you need water, it's still cheaper to drive the truck as close as you can and carry it the rest of the way.

Remember, they take humidity out of the air. So be wary of any that claim the are bringing water to the desert, the #1 place for low humidity.

"Define" in this case just means that there is a single plane that contains all three points, which you can't do if they are collinear or if they are only two, because there is ambiguity.

Would driving a truck to the nearest water source

While these devices are inefficient and less useful in arid areas I believe they exist for the niche situation where “driving to the nearest source” is not a possibility. 

As a backup emergency system in remote areas with ample power and atmospheric humidity it could be keep someone alive until a typical system is established.

If interaction is entirely through gravity, a point based model will do fine, and is simple. Had pressure, collisions etc. been a factor, you might want to continuum.

It's just like electricity: It's typically more effective to just run some wires, but it might not be possible depending on location, so you might use solar panels and batteries. Getting water by truck may not be practical in some situations.

Destruction of third parties property to make money. What a great business.

Vanadium steel is hard and rather ductile.

The ratio between successive terms of the Fibonacci sequence converge to the golden ratio phi (approx 1.618). That means the ratio of successive terms in your sequence will converge to the ratio 2/phi, which is approximately 1.236.

I have a video of a tow truck wiggling an AWD vehicle off the bed because he forgot to ask the owner for the keys 😞

4.1% of the people on death row will be found not guilty

Due to "justice"(actually not guilty), or because the evidence and testimony is so old that the court is too lost in process without understanding like they would if it were more fresh?

I mean, I get advanced science, eg genetics now being a bigger thing.  When science allows for a fresh examination of evidence, sure...

But I could see where you dust off an old case and it's like reading some lost language(often literally when reaching back into the days of hand-written affidavits and such, when investigation resembles archeology).  Couldn't rightly convict today, sure, because it's XX years or decades old material, nobody knows who the witnesses are, if they're even around any more, etc.

This is the reason we have statutes of limitations and such in the first place.

In a perfect world, we'd be able to shift through appeals much faster.

/I'm just musing, not expressing any solid opinion here.

Our legal system is a bit bogged down and rusty, where it's not fully inept/corrupt/biased/etc.

Thats a water trap.

Warm air passes over a cold surface and deposits water.

Decades ago, the person who moved out of the apartment below me left a random succulent. I watered the damn thing every 2-4 months. Wife was always amazed at why it never died.

It depends how far away the nearest fresh water source is. 

Atmospheric water generators and desalination plants are both things you use in places where you don’t have easy access to fresh water within a reasonable distance

The technical term to explain this in more normal times is “structural unemployment.”

But in 2026, the real answer is that all these  econometrics are completely fraudulent. Most job postings are for ghost jobs. We have the lowest labor participation rate on record since women entered the workforce and they say with a straight face that unemployment is under 5%. When they’re lying so brazenly, why bother trying to make the cooked numbers add up?

Elusive. Means he's saying you're not often see outside work.  You hide from social gatherings, etc.

elusive, meaning you probably don't like to go out very much.

I just leave it in 1st gear along with the handbrake on.

The price of an item is determined by supply and demand. It can be dumbed down to say, the seller will sell it for as high as they can while still having buyers buy it.

If I had a stockpile of lumber, and I decided to make the price $100,000 per plank, I’d never sell any. If I sold them for 1 dollar per plank, someone would come in and buy my entire stock. That person might use the planks, but more realistically, they’d turn around and sell those planks for 2 dollars per plank, and make double their money. If I sell too cheap, I run out quickly and have nothing left to sell.

If I can acquire planks at 100 planks per week, I will keep increasing the price I sell my planks at until I hit a sweet spot where I don’t have surplus inventory, but make as much money as possible. If I make the planks cost $200 each, but only 20 planks sell that week, I am not selling enough. If I make the planks cost $50 dollars, but sell all 100 of my planks in 2 days, then I have made my price too low. I will continuously tweak the price until I sell exactly 100 planks per week at the highest possible price I can charge.

Or you're avoiding giving them a straight answer.

Hard to get in contact with/ rarely seen or spotted, how I would read that at least. Basically you're rare to speak to/see

Most likely Elusive

The plural of anectdote isn't data

I think most advocates for the death penalty do understand that, but don't care because they think it's "justice". They don't even care that we know people have been put to death for crimes they didn't commit.

...

I think the people I disagree with are just ignorant and they believe in ridiculous things.

Average redditor moment.

When painting the opposition as fundamentally lesser people, it is just as closed minded and bigoted as they are being accused of.

I think the ball should probably be first or second. It's basketball, not basketdribbling.

Simple explanation: Some of them will pay, and you make a higher return on capital from them. The ones that don't pay, you foreclose on and make a profit (because house prices always go up ... Until they don't, oops).

It's more complex: because each player in the game is playing with somebody else's money. The broker gets a commission and the more mortgages he gives out, the more commission he gets. By the time they default, he's got a job somewhere else and the bank is the one with the risk. Now, the bank will have a team of people trying to stop brokers writing too much risky debt, but they'll also have people working against that team, because everyone needs to pump their numbers up to make their bonus this year.

But you can still free them… Like what is so hard to understand here? You can not reverse the death penalty in any way. You can reverse life in prison in some capacity. We know innocent people are incorrectly found guilty. Why would we use the 100% permanent punishment when we have a less permanent option?

I mean yeah, it’s awful but it’s still better than dying.

If someone asks you “Have you eaten today?” Do you reply “Yes, I have” or “Yes, I have eaten today” so they don’t assume that you had some food five years ago?

The context for the statement was given in the question.

You can reverse one to some extent. You can not reverse the death penalty. It is absolute. Seems pretty simple to me.

Because being locked away can be made right to at least some small extent through release and being paid compensation.

I mean, even if they cleared out all of the cars around it, I'm not sure how'd they'd get the car out short of putting it on dollies and trying to haul it out with a small SUV. Would get a bit precarious on the ramps. I've parked in one somewhere in the northeast (I wanna say Philly) that wasn't even tall enough accommodate regular pickup trucks or large SUV. 

Of course, if you can get away with parking the car and never driving it there are plenty of possibilities of hiding it away. I knew a guy years ago who parked his truck behind his barn and blocked in with a massive old bulldozer and there were trees and a deep ravine on the other side. He was just a crazy old guy who probably enjoyed fucking with them. He actually caught a repo guy out there looking at it and just told him "good luck". There was no way they were going to move the dozer without a heavy wrecker, and if they had one the bank evidently wasn't paying them enough for them to risk getting it stuck in the cow pasture and/or sliding into the ravine. Not sure how it ended, truck sat back there for months in full view from the road but I'm sure the bank still got their money eventually somehow.

The iron-carbon phase you're describing is still in the non-steel phase, ferrite, where the carbon atoms are dispersed within the grid of iron atoms. These dont do much to prevent the sliding.

You get steel when the concentration of carbon becomes so large (>0.022 wt% carbon) that it can't be fully dissolved in iron, and grains of cementite (Fe3C) form. It's these cementite particles that makes the iron-iron sliding more difficult, causing steel to be harder.

I consider neither to be a victory. But in one of them the state didn't kill an innocent person.

And what if it doesnt?  I understand the hate for the death penalty, but being locked in a smelly, loud and cold concrete and metal bathroom surrounded by dangerous individuals seems to be acceptable.  Are you satisfied if someone is exonerated after a 45 year stretch and they are in the late 70s or 80s?  Im just asking why the death penalty part is unacceptable while overlooking the rotting in jail part as some type of victory?

The necessity to be non-colinear is a part of the question that was not answered in the top level comment.

To be more specific,  torture without gain for society would be pointless. Might as well make the turture work for the good of the society with forced labour.

Ai precognition and precrime cases

Hello police I’d like to report a murder

Watch this video. It tells you exactly why they look like that. It’s from the channel Veritasium.

ngl it always blows my mind how someone can be on death row longer than i've been alive. is it mostly just the endless appeals process taking that long?

It's part of the question so it should be answered instead of ignored.

Well, loan agents for one thing. I was in the Industry at the time as the IT Admin for various small mortgage companies. The loan agents at these companies would literally instruct people to lie on their "stated income" loans and say they were self employed when they were not.

ngl chemistry is so wild for this, like how does a fraction of a percent change it from super strong to basically glass? what's the actual tipping point percentage?

There are different ways. Some actually lift the whole car onto a flatbed truck and drive away. Some lift two wheels off the ground (those linked to the transmission) while the other two will roll freely. Finally, some put two tires on small dollys with wheels and lift the other two, so that they can drive away even if all 4 car wheels are locked by the transmission.

But life in prison, being deprived of freedom, is the punishment. That is being made to pay for your actions

hey you said it not me

According to… something, Ted Williams set records in flight training for the Marines that still stand

Strap it down so the owner can't cause trouble by driving off the lift and pop the door open and take the hand brake off. Some cars make a fuck ton of noise when you pop the locks though, so that's why you be ready to vamoose before you do that.

Back when I was repoing I'd sometimes get it all ready to go then knock on the door to let the person get their stuff. No need to be unnecessarily mean about it, and saves me the paperwork of logging all the shit inside once I get back to the yard.

Irrelevant tangent, but sure, let's go with flight for an analogy. The title mentioned penguins and a comment said it's impossible for birds to not fly. It's still a wrong statement. Context is irrelevant.

happy birthday to the GROUND!

(I ain’t going to be part of your SYSTEM)

Go back and read the first comment in this thread. They claim there is no medical reason to circumcise. That’s what I responded to. 

You can get on your soap box all you want about the ethics of circumcision, the science supports a medical benefit to the procedure and very low risk. That sounds like a reason to me.

I've heard it applied to artificial neural network techniques in the past.

And ultimately the current gen of AI for most are evolutions of this techniques. By a combination of some new approaches and throwing a ridiculous amount of computational power against it they look like a different beast.

Well, they (and you) didn't specify whether they meant a plane with wings flying around in the air either, but it was given by the context of the question.

This of cause is a simplification but I am sure you have seen a spread sheet.  Rows and columns.  In mathematics if you collect numbers together as rows and collets like that it is called a matrix.

Computers are very good at doing operations on matrixes.  Because you can use a method called "Single instruction, multiple data"  Where you do the same mathematical operation to a whole lot of different numbers at the same time.

So you can have all the particles move their locations based on their speed as a single operation.  Then add up all the forces on a particle based on their relative locations again as a single matrix calculation.

Cast iron is useful for its ability to absorb vibration. It’s used for machine sliding surfaces and I’m sure many other things.

Hope you are doing better these days!

Great, now, if a gene is expressed due to environmental changes, is that gene going to be passed down to offspring or is it unrelated to epigenetics? Meaning that gene would be passed down either way

“How much can we charge people before they complain?”

Basically, it’s however much they can get away with, or if it is equal to their competitors.

It’s the inch thick layer of mold and mucus that builds up in these machines that adds to the texture and flavour.

Something super simple that my highschool geography teacher showed me when I asked a similar question, was she took a sheet of paper, and then set it on top of 3 of her fingertips showing the 3 points supporting the plane. And then she took one of her fingertips off and the paper slid off her 2 remaining fingertips. 

She really didn't explain it much, but the visual was about all I needed to understand it!

And this is going off topic but how do people actually manage to survive or keep up their mortgage when the housing market crashes and their houses are worth less than their mortgage? Do they sit on it and hope it rises?

Unless there's a huge drop, you have very little down, or you haven't been in your house for very long...then you're probably not fully underwater. 

Also, if you don't lose your job and were planning to stay in your house long term, not much changes. If your mortgage was $2,500 per month and you could comfortably afford it, your mortgage is still $2,500 per month.

You smart enough to understand that science doesn't decide what's right to do ...right? 

Youre trying to make some absolute argument. Theres NEVER EVER EVER any reason to circumcise...thats what you want the argument to be so you can pivot to disorders and infections. 

It's unethical to cut off the tips of baby dicks. Almost everywhere in the world doesn't do it. But you americans need your foreskins removed for some reason.

Polynesians did pretty good

It's a terrible joke I heard from a very off-colour 80s comedian called Rodney Rude. Baby has no eyelids, we'll use his foreskin, won't he be cockeyed, yeah but think of the foresight he'll have.

Two main ways:

Measuring the expansion rate of the universe, and then calculating how long ago everything would have been in a singularity.

Complicated particle physics about the cosmic microwave background radiation.  When it originally appeared, it should have been *incredibly* high-energy light, and now it's stretched out to microwaves.

If you want ELI-HighSchool, you can read the Wikipedia article about it:

You’re ignoring the context that is stated in the topic we are discussing. I agree that his statement was missing a crucial bit of information but given the circumstances it’s safe to say it’s implied and just needed the “in a non-linear plane” bit added if anything. That’s why explaining an entire workaround that was ruled out in the title of the post is silly.

More carbon keeps making it harder, in this case meaning stiffer. But we also *want* iron to be a little soft so it can bend instead of breaking. Like a spring.

If there's too much carbon, it gets too stiff, and the damn thing loses the ability to "spring back into shape" and just breaks apart under stress.

social worker is the broader term. They’re trained in support services, advocacy, and connecting people with resources, while therapists are specifically trained to provide mental health treatment. Some social workers are therapists, but plenty aren’t.

Prison is not punishment it has been reform for a long time now so anything that makes people pay for their actions is considered cruel human torture

but don't care because they think it's "justice"

Gonna burst your bubble there.

They think the problem is the expense. If they had their way a death sentence would be carried out a week later by whichever volunteer has a gun and doesn't mind doing the dirty work.

cheaper (once you get rid of the infinity appeals system ofc)

I mean, you could save even more money and just shoot them instead of having a trial, assuming they look guilty enough.

Some rocks become other rocks. 

We know how to tell age of rock.

Use s̶c̶i̶e̶n̶c̶e̶  uh, magic, to find out how old rock is.

Math?

Profit???

I’m not naive. Many people deserve blame, but not all. And here’s something you maybe haven’t considered - that some of those people were act servicing their loans - doing what they had committed to do! Interest rates for many borrowers climbed to 12% which they couldn’t afford so they got foreclosed on, but the property values had plummeted leaving them in negative equity and possibly bankruptcy. Many didn’t deserve that. That’s not naivety on my part, it’s called empathy.

Physicists noticed all the galaxies in space are moving away from eachother. If you can calculate their direction and velocity you can the deduce not only where they're going, but where they came from. With some math, you can calculate where bodies were in the past, you do this and go far back enough, we note that everything originated from one point, and the math says that would have been 13.8 billion years ago.

Something to do with backdating the cosmic background radiation. I'm not an expert, but those that are have explained it very well online.

A friend once described it as taking a picture of the reflection of a pile of money and then selling the picture.

The cost starts running when the da decides DP. Larger longer jury pools/voir dire. Additional security. Only some defense lawyers are death qualified. Tons more experts. On and on. Source am defense atty. not death qualified though.

Survivor Bias. You only see what nature did not kill.

Tax payers are not complicit in murder. A lot of people don't have a choice in which country they're a tax payer in.

Oh I like the simplicity of this. 

I wonder if it would apply back in the day.

cheaper (once you get rid of the infinity appeals system ofc), no chance of them escaping, no chance of them killing other inmates or guards, also I think nearly everyone would choose living out their natural lifespan in prison as opposed to being executed, so I'm not sure I agree with your framing that life imprisonment is the harsher punishment actually

I mean yea? But just because they were found guilty doesnt mean they actually are. Plenty of people were found guilty and executed, turns out they were falsely accused

Lol, so no response. Just a, trust me bro, a couple ad hominems, then a pivot away from actual facts. You’re a joke.

If you remember back to the first post in this chain, the claim that there is no medical reason to circumcise. That was the discussion I replied to. Please try to keep up.

Yeah that's basically the whole story but the cookie analogy doesn't really work because carbon atoms actually lock into the iron crystal lattice and block slip planes from moving, it's not just about quantity

Your submission has been removed because it concerns, or has been prompted by, a recent or current event. Recent events are a topic not covered in ELI5 under Rule 2.  However, we have established a megathread for current events which can be found pinned to the top of the sub, sort posts by "Hot" if your reddit version cannot see the pinned posts otherwise. You could also consider trying a sub such as /r/news, /r/worldnews, /r/OutOfTheLoop, or /r/NoStupidQuestions. Please make sure to read their rules and their current megathreads (if related).

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The universe is actually 43 years old and his name is Terry.

What ancient texts back up 155 trillion? I'm genuinely curious.

You don't know that it won't come undone. But you also don't know that you won't get killed by a drunk driver or that someone won't shoot up where you work. The only time I've ever heard of a person falling off of a roller coaster was some autistic kid struggled himself out of the restraints. I think the appeal of roller coasters is supposed to be that they are kinda scary, so be scared and ride one and feel confident that you almost certainly aren't going to die.

Exactly right. And the explanation is quite simple: they’re all beholden to the same donors.

Except (pedantry warning), ductile and flexible are two... different things.

It could come from French but be a regional variation, spoken in England for example

Could Halo Spartan armor theoretically work in this case? I’m not even going to explain it a bit because there’s a shit ton of halo nerds that spontaneously generate when you mention any lore lol

And 72.6% of statistics are made up. 

100% of the people on death row have been found guilty.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Straightforward or factual queries are not allowed on ELI5. ELI5 is meant for simplifying complex concepts (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

The closest I can think of is a fire emblem GBA having a long list of numbers that it cycles through as an RNG.

There was 0 randomness, and as a result it was stupidly easy to reverse engineer. But it was also really easy to not notice that the same decisions gave the same outcome after a hard reset.

US as well... or at least it will not be granted.

You must provide a set of instructions so complete that a person with ordinary skill in your field could make and use your invention without needing to do extensive, unreasonable experimentation

Or if we pull it straight from 35 US Code Section 112 instead of a random website paraphrasing it.

(a) In General.—     
The specification shall contain a written description of the invention, and of the manner and process of making and using it, in such full, clear, concise, and exact terms as to enable any person skilled in the art to which it pertains, or with which it is most nearly connected, to make and use the same, and shall set forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor or joint inventor of carrying out the invention.

Still sufficiently random, though, until proven otherwise.

Before DNA there was no way to prove some people's innocence. Who knows what will come in the next twenty years and exonerate people.

Two part answer:  

1. Some/many job postings are not real. 
2. Some/many job postings are absolutely meaningless jobs people don't want to do.

Listen I've done the data trench warfare, you lose everytime. It's unethical to cut the foreskin off a baby. They can't consent to this GRUESOME body modification. They can't opt out of participating in a religious blood sacrifice. That's what it is, that is where it came from, and that is what it continues to be.

Just going to correct OP a bit:  carbon makes steel HARDER. 'Stronger' is a bit ambiguous unless you mean tensile strength.  Lower hardness steel can have higher tensile strength than carbon steel.

Repos looking like they gonna break records since 2008. Good times ahead.

It can't burn away, but it could decompose. Heating crude oil to crack it is what we already do in refineries. It might not burn, but it might cease to be oil if brought to extreme temperatures, like at a fault.

Where was I being unserious? Don't like the language of 'cutting off the tips of baby dicks'??? why? that's exactly what is done.

Sufficient randomness has been achieved:  if we humans can't predict which card a dealer will deal next, that's 'sufficient'.

Whether anything is truly random is still up for debate. 

Some scientists claim things like electron positions in a cloud are random within a range.  But I contend that they might be tied to an underlying system we can't see.

By writing software that simulates it... It sounds like you are really asking "how does programming work"

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

Apparently Epstein. According to the files. Fact check me, please

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

* Hypotheticals questions, or questions about hypothetical situations, are not allowed on ELI5 (Rule 2).

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #2 - Questions must seek objective explanations

---
If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously, please use this form and we will review your submission.**

Is it any better or worse than anyone imprisoned for life with no chance of parole?  Im sure there is a non insignificant amount of inmates that will live the rest of their lives incarcerated and no way to prove their innocence. Is that better than death?

Death is the absence and full cessation of consciousness.

Sleep is the deactivation of active consciousness.

With the exception of dreams, your sensory perception in either case is the same (the lack thereof).

This is utter nonsense. If I blink and see black, am I dead?

Say 30 people graduate from college with a diploma in the same field, and there are 3 companies hiring ten people each. The first company only wants people who have 5+ years of experience in the field, so none of the 30 are qualified. The second company will only hire people who speak at least three languages fluently, so none of the 30 are qualified for it either. The third company will take in the newbies, but the salary is lousy, the hours are atrocious, and the workplace environment is so bad most people quit in just a few months working there.

So you have 30 people looking for jobs, and 3 companies offering 30 jobs, but 20 of those jobs are unattainable for most of the people, and the other 10 pays so badly most people won't choose to work there unless they literally have no other option. The three companies complain about the work shortage, but do nothing to fix it (offering better salary and hours, or hiring inexperienced workers to train them in what they need), and the workers remain unemployed.

Hello The__Tobias,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

If heat are cats, then your insulated cup is an island they're stuck on. 

Insulation is the water all around them. 

The air in the open top is a long tightrope going uphill to get off the island.

So the cats have to slowly trickle out one by one.

brittle and useless

Cast iron is a beloved material used for an absolute fuckton of things.

You can't give them back the years spent in  prison either.

He said it. Software engineers write the software that figures out the calculations.

we all know that transfusing the wrong blood type leads to a hemolytic reaction

Yeah, of course I do..

Iron is incredibly hard to smelt. Until the 18th century, iron was made by melting *the ore out of the iron* because no fire was hot enough to actually melt the iron.

For a very long time, civilization did well on copper and bronze. Unfortunately, copper and tin are never found together, requiring costly trade. They are also not as abundant as iron.

Hello Lucky_CandyGore,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Nobody doesn't know this here.

The bottom of a flat shoe has less grip than a football cleat that has bumps all over the bottom. The more texture you add, the more surface area there is. The more surface area there is, the better it can stick to whatever you are trying to stick it to.

Yeah. Of course! Everybody knows that..

The equation represents a set.

The set _is_ the plane. If I have three points a, b, and c and I ask you is point "p on the plane determined by a, b, and c?", the answer is equivalent to that for "is p a member of P(a, b, c)?". They cannot disagree.

(Caveat: there is an implicit assumption that we're drawing a, b, c, and p from R^3. I'm certain that this is not the hangup.)

If that set did not contain at least 3 points, it would not represent a plane.

I'll do you one better: If that set did not contain **infinite points**, it would not represent a plane, since a plane is by definition infinite. But that doesn't mean I need an infinite collection of points to determine it.

Steve Mould just made an excellent video on steel this week fully answers OP's question. And explains your comment.

Your submission has been removed because it concerns a question about Reddit itself, Reddit's karma, upvotes or drama in another sub. 
Understand that the visible upvote score and actual upvote score are not the same, reddit manipulates the scores for content management, 
and question about votes/karma should be asked in r/help Questions about drama in some other sub should be asked that sub, or in r/subredditdrama or r/theoryofreddit

See also: /coins/ and /r/announcements/comments/5gvd6b/scores_on_posts_are_about_to_start_going_up/

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

No more than yourself

Honestly, if the vehicle is inaccessible they'll either wait until it is or just throw some boots on it so it can't be used.

May make a deal with the parking garage. "Hey, can you tell your users that you need to do some maintenance work and clear out this particular level? Because otherwise we're gonna have to move a lot of cars"

we all know that transfusing the wrong blood type leads to a hemolytic reaction

Of course I do

It's funny how language evolves. My partner is an occupational therapist and I know a lot of physio therapists. Both professions provide therapy. My partner even provides mental health therapy, as that's her specialty. But she is not a psychologist, which is very much what the short hand for therapist has become to mean.

I keep reading it to see if there’s anything in the realm of correct, but the fundamental model is so different from how atoms work that I really don’t know where to start. Sheets? Nope, though you could maybe make an argument for slip planes on a single crystal level, but it falls apart later with the whole explanation about grain boundaries. Some of the terms are the same words used in metallurgy, but the usage is not in line with the generally accepted standards.

Right, I was pointing out why it’s a bad comparison because people do remove the tips of their fingernails and people aren’t chopping their whole wiener off.

And yet the comment i replied to is still wrong, regardless of what OPs title is. It simply isn't "not possible".

I didn't even know about that one... 5-4 is in my regular rotation. I'll have to check out OA. Thanks!

In regards to the whole "licensed" thing, I am firmly of the opinion that anyone who gets *any* sort of ticket for a moving violation should have to take and pass a driver's education class.

And when everyone gets to work the next day the towing company has new owners and a new name so it's harder to sue them. They pass the LLC around to other family members. 

"Ok everyone, here are the new tshirts, the new name is Joe's Tow, we are not Tow Joe anymore."

Also, there is plenty of people wanting to work, for twice the pay that the company are willing to pay. By a wide margin. Like 1.5-2 times the offered pay. Some get even offended when they got offered the maximum entry level pay as advertised in the ads for this job. We got one that left the interview at that point.

Bro, it was right there, in plain sight, in the first few bullet points of the ads!!

I've hooked and dragged F550s sideways and backwards with minimal effort and proper rigging.  

There's really no such thing as "too heavy" when talking about simply moving a vehicle on asphalt or concrete.  

And in the odd instance it's a medium duty (such as the F450s and F550s, and RAM 5500s) we usually know in advance and bring bigger trucks.

PMHNP (psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner). Aka psych nurse

CBT = cognitive behavioural therapy. What everyone thinks of when they think of therapy. 

ACT = acceptance and commitment therapy. A different modality. 

Everything else is a licensure abbreviation, which varies by state. LPC for instance is licensed professional counsellor.

Hello SuperOspre,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Because the US system doesn't know how to manage money and the average person has no choice but to pay for it.

The equation represents a set. If that set did not contain at least 3 points, it would not represent a plane.

Yes and they’ve been found guilty in court. I’m not sure if you think the initial conviction is taking 13 years as opposed to them being convicted and then just appealing a hundred times.

Can you explain what each of these abbreviations stands for?

Hello SuperOspre,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Shame your friend doesn't seem to be correct. Most steel has less than 1% carbon but high carbon steel can get as high as 2.1% carbon by weight. And something goes for being iron to being steel at something like 0.5%

So that's fraction of a percent your friend invoked just isn't correct. 

No various qualities change quickly as you change the carbon amount so the tolerance may be super small like that in order to make sure you're delivering the correct amount of carbon for the intended purpose of any given amount of steel. 

But I don't necessarily know that he properly described things accurately. Especially not compared to you know what a basic Google will search out. 

 As always Google isn't necessarily authoritative but I'm not sure your friend is authoritated by there given the difference. 

The numbers your friends talking about are basically down in the wrought iron range.

Masters level clinicians are LCSW, LMFT, and LCPC -   
Social worker programs focus more on broad study of systems, advocacy, mental health, and policy.  
Marriage and Family programs focus on family and couples therapy, issues, and interventions.  
Counselor programs focus more heavily on thearpy, interventions, diagnostics, and psychopathology.

Doctoral clinicians are generally psychologists, who have more in-depth focus and training on psychological assessment and evaluation (testing), diagnostics, and interventions. 

Social workers have more job opportunity because of the breadth of their education, but there's not a ton of depth. For those that want to practice as therapist they have to pass licensing exams and complete around 2 years of closely supervised practice in order to be a therapist (as do counselors and LMFTs).   
  
Like many professions, the most important education comes from actually doing the work and the real-world training. Many social workers become more specific in terms of psychopathology and diagnostics on the job. Many counselors become more aware of systems and policy on the job. LMFTs become more aware of individual needs on the job. I know plenty of psychologists that do terrible therapy and many masters level clinicians that are amazingly smart and good at what they do - so you really can't judge too much based on degree as it relates to practicing therapists. Areas of expertise, certification, and client/clinician fit are the best indicators of competent and effective work.

That rolling a ball uphill explanation was beautiful.  It made so much sense that my college professors never mentioned.

Marketplace mall in Henrietta was largely taken over by University of Rochester medical center.  

Irondiquoit Mall was turned into a community center

With a bit of oil you can drag a car with handbrake on onto ramps and on your trailer if your truck has a winch.

How do you propose the plane is determined by the three coplanar points without its own equation? I'll tell you what the equation is: 

P(a, b, c) = { p | (p-a).((b-a)x(c-a))=0 }

So is it four "points" defining the plane in that case now, since the equation apparently counts as a point?

I guess the transfer of funds is the literal thing you can do. But to begin with, I think what's important is how an individual/company get to access and invest to a private company such as OpenAI. Of course, there will be barriers such as legalities, net worth, and eligibility as a whole. This system keeps retail investors from investing, that's why Tessera is starting to get popular in the masses. Imagine getting access and economic exposure to private companies, just simply having a mobile wallet.

Because they're *still* relying on consumer ignorance about the change, and a whole bunch of media telling them if they don't tip they're stingy/cruel/shouldn't ever eat out/you name it.  You think bartenders and waitresses will ever acknowledge they're paid a full wage?  Absolutely not.

A car smashed through my yard once and ended up in a ditch next to the road. The tow truck driver was up on the road and started pulling the car out sideways. I told him he was welcome to go down onto my property and pull the car out the way it came in. 

He looked at me and said, 'I was told this was a drunk driver. 

I said 'yep, state patrol took her away in cuffs about 30 minutes ago' 

he shrugged and said 'I'll just yank it out this way then, that way she can never drive it again'. 

My point is that if a tow truck can pull a car sideways out of a ditch, your parking brake isn't gonna be an issue. 

Also don't drink and drive.

That’s just a factor of what people will pay for it. People won’t pay you $100 for it if they can get it for $90 somewhere else unless you can otherwise differentiate yourself to make up that difference.

It's pretty much the same.

If you have the three points A, B, C on the plane, you can take lines AB and AC, then do a cross product. That gives you a new point D, which is perpendicular to the plane above A. A+D define the same plane as A, B and C.

You can also take A+D, then you make a right angle at A, that gives you a second point on the plane, and then take one at right angles to that, giving you a third point. So from just A+D, you can work out a set of three points that does the same thing.

And as I pointed out, it's the rotational symmetry that lets you cheat and only define two points. If you were aligning a cube for example in 3D you need three points worth of information to properly determine it's location and orientation.

No, and it’s funny you say that because I’m arguing this exact distinction in a separate thread. 

Both a psychiatrist and PMHNP can do therapy with next to no training or clinical hours. 

Psychologists ofc are trained in and must do clinical hours in therapy, but they focus more (compared to the others) on diagnostic evals, research etc. 

LPCs (LMHCs, etc) are a two year masters whose sole focus is therapy. They tend to train more in higher tier disorders and more modalities than just CBT. 

LCSWs (LMSWs, etc) are social workers, whose graduate training involve many things. You only need to do the clinical hours in therapy, after insurance, for a clinical license (and LMSW, etc). The license is SPECIFICALLY to do therapy and provide clinical services. Their training ofc is very much community resources and access, triage and short term therapy, etc. 

LMFTs are marriage and family therapists. More similar to an LPC, but their core focus is of course the family unit and family therapy. Or other modalities like ACT for issues stemming from family.

I'm guessing by game you mean match. You can't win a game without winning more points than the other player. You can win a set while winning less points. You can win the match while winning less points. But you have to win a game by winning by at least two points. Points make up games, games make up sets, sets make up matches, if that makes sense.

An exception would be some weird situation where a player is penalized a game regardless of the score. But that is very, very rare in pro tennis - I struggle to think of any examples. More likely to just be penalized points.or straight up DQed if bad enough.

steel is a solution. a solid solution, but just like how you can only dissolve so much sugar in water, you can only dissolve so much carbon in iron, too much and it precipitates intonlittle nodules of carbon (graphite) which weakens the steel.

Advocates for the death penalty do understand that. And many think that the for cases with certain types of evidence should not have all the automatic appeals. We are not monsters. We don’t think any person that commits a crime should die a grisly death. I spent most of my life as very anti death penalty. And then I saw the video of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev putting a bomb next to an 8 year old boy. After that I saw things differently. People always want to talk about the complicated cases. That’s has its place. We should  examine all of our hard choices. But what about the simple ones? There is no confusion or debate about if he committed the crime. But here were are 13 years later. Martian Richard would probably have graduated college this year. And it’s still making its way through the courts. He had his trial. Why is her still here

That’s only one small segment of the entire talk.  It’s super easy to find it on YouTube and it’s awesome.

I bet I’ve watched at least 15 times over the years.

Did you confuse psychologists for psychiatrists?

While true, I think the more common word might be "flexible" that gets the same idea across.

man, I'm blind today. That's what I get for paying more attention to the comments than I do the OP's post. 😉

Saw a truck dragging a sedan with locked front wheels the other day. Well semi-locked I think he had already trashed the diff bc one was kinda turning while the other skidded

Social workers get an MSW, therapists get a MA, and the licensing requirements are different. A therapist is a clinical position that often accepts insurance and uses therapeutic techniques to improve a client's emotional wellbeing. A social worker is more focused on practical solutions, helping connect the client with resources, helping them access community and public services, etc. I believe the therapist-client relationship is protected by confidentiality, while the social worker is not (or is less strict about it, although I could be wrong on that).

That doesn't work with the infinitely many planes that go through the origin.

Go Jacks, and yes used in parking garages. If you can't get a tow truck into a parking garage because the truck is too tall then you use go jacks to move the car to the tow truck.

Many people bought homes they had no business buying at all.  They bit off more than they could chew.

If you think the borrowing public is exempt from criticism or blame in the financial crisis, you're woefully naive.

Not triggered, chuckling at your attempt.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Joke-only comments, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions (Rule 3).

Anecdotes, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

OP has that bit literally in the title.

Huh? I didn't even propose a theory lmao. Why do you sound triggered

There are like 1,000 jobs that social workers can do, and many people in the field will jump around and do different things in their careers. Which can give them a really cool and varied and unique skill set since they have worked in such different environments. It's a pretty cool job honestly.

Ok so two points defines a line, but NOT a plane. There are infinitely many planes that could go through two points, so not unique. 

Think of it this way. You’ve got two points in space. Connect them with a string. That’s your line. Now take a flat piece of cardboard, and tape it to the string. Does the cardboard only have one possible orientation? No! You can rotate the cardboard 360 degrees around the string, so there are really infinite planes possible. (Just like for a single point, you could draw infinite lines of different slopes through the point). 

Now pick a third point in space, not on the string. (It’s important that the third point ISN’T on the line. We call this non-collinear). Now rotate the cardboard until the point lands on the surface of cardboard. There’s only one angle to which you can tilt the cardboard where this works. That plane, in that unique orientation, is the plane defined by those 3 points. 

You could also define a plane with two vectors (because you can make 2 vectors out of 3 points (A, B, C) by finding AB and AC, or a single point (this gives the location of the plane in space) and a normal vector (ann arrow pointing away from the plane and perpendicular to it) which determines the plane’s orientation in space. 

My iPhone really wanted to use the plane emoji while typing this, so here it is ✈️

This is so accurate.  It only took balls to make money in the 2004-2007 real estate boom, not brains.  But those that were riding high thought they were fucking geniuses.

You don't understand how having boiling hot, freezing cold, or chemically active liquids splashed on your crotch could have a greater effect on a circumsized penis than an uncircumsized penis?

Do you just rock around in a hazmat suit everywhere you go? Clothing only offers so much protection. Liquids soak in. It is generally frowned upon to rip your pants off in class or in public even if you spill something caustic on them because people are prudes.

And slave labor wouldn’t count as torture? What are you talking about

Ah, I see now.  Thanks!

Is the calculation from three points simpler than this?

Social workers help you get resources for living a sustainable life (connecting you with doctors, legal, social services/welfare, etc). 

Clinical social workers can do that but have more training in therapy techniques to diagnose and treat psychological distress. 

Both have similar training that stems for sociology. 

Therapists that many people think of are clinical/counseling psychologists. They have training in psychological sciences, applying that science to therapy, and diagnostic assessment.

Clinical social workers and Clinical/counseling psychologists are both able to get licensure to practice therapy. But only psychologists can do assessment for things like neuro developmental disorders, ADHD, etc.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* ELI5 does not allow guessing.

Although we recognize many guesses are made in good faith, if you aren’t sure how to explain please don't just guess. The entire comment should not be an educated guess, but if you have an educated guess about a portion of the topic please make it explicitly clear that you do not know absolutely, and clarify which parts of the explanation you're sure of (Rule 8).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* ELI5 does not allow guessing.

Although we recognize many guesses are made in good faith, if you aren’t sure how to explain please don't just guess. The entire comment should not be an educated guess, but if you have an educated guess about a portion of the topic please make it explicitly clear that you do not know absolutely, and clarify which parts of the explanation you're sure of (Rule 8).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

I am amazed. I was sure you were going to say, "cockeyed." I have never heard this version in all my earthly wanderings.

Torture (noun)  
The intentional infliction of severe physical or mental pain or suffering.

Imprisonment is well documented to cause severe mental suffering.

Thanks for a kind correction! I was speaking from my own experience and interactions which are admittedly limited.

I feel like this is _really_ the key point here.

Fe₃C is really the most carbon you can fit into a block of iron, and iron is so much heavier that the percentages work out with that really sharp imbalance. Every 1% of carbon by weight binds to 15% of the iron by weight, so little changes can make a very big difference.

Once you have a death sentence, you have no logical reason not to take every possible path available to reverse it. The alternative is you just accept death. 

If you can appeal, you're going to. If you can otherwise delay, you're going to. If you can make a case that you've reformed, you're going to. If you can send a letter to the newly elected president, you will! Each moment you get back is another chance to be exonerated or pardoned.

And the state should give you that due process. They've messed up before, killed the wrong person, and only found out decades later. Plua, most of the public already doesn't like the death penalty. The political risk of being wrong is rarely worth it.

Silly theories are preferable to straight up wrong ones like yours.

It’s a matching problem. Many ways to not make a match.

If we have equal numbers of males and females in an all heterosexual population, should everyone be matched up all the time?

You have differences of preferences, interests, needs, age, experience, and location. Same for jobs and workers.

Yup, clear and concise answer. Some states differ, but in my state any licensed social worker with a master’s degree can practice therapy. Specific techniques or modalities (CBT, DBT, EMDR, etc) require a specialized certification and training. But a social worker can still use the specific concepts from the above as long as they make it clear that they aren’t specialized in that modality or do not have the certification, etc.

Social workers also are provided education in skills outside of therapy like case management, administration, policy, activism, non-profit work, hospitals, etc etc.

Often people think of social workers and they think of CPS. But there are many, many more things that social workers do. In my state, I would say about 30-40% (maybe even more, I’m being conservative) of therapists I have known are licensed social workers, the others LPCs (licensed professional counselors), psychologists, and sometimes PsyDs. 

But what’s nice for social workers is that we aren’t stuck with therapy if we decide to go do something else. Whereas, despite having many skills, LPCs, psychologists, and PsyDs might have a little bit of a harder time finding something not therapy related.

This reflects my experience with various psychologists and social workers over the years, the social workers I’ve been lucky enough to spend time with (injury rehab stuff) have all seemed to be able to draw on a **very broad** range of knowledge, with backgrounds in community care work, AoD counselling, working for healthcare or health-education related NFPs etc. 

Also, in hospitals, they can be absolute miracle workers when the ward staff are tapped out.

A therapist is an umbrella term for a variety of professions that handle mental health or physical health disorders. Though when people just say "therapist" with no qualifier, they generally mean psychologist or other talk therapy specialist. 

A social worker is a like a supportive networker- they asses what the person needs, provides them support and advocacy, and connects them with the necessary services. A social worker can be a therapist depending on their qualifications. 

As for qualifications, that depends where you are. Where I am, WA USA, an appropriate master's degree is the minimum providing talk therapy to clients (whether that's as a psychologist with psychology degrees, or a social worker with additional master of social work with clinical training) but a doctorate is highly preferred.

sorry to "actually" you, but it depends on the social worker. almost all social work masters programs have a clinical track and most (not all) people on that track are looking to function as a therapist and receive therapist training. There are also other tracks that social workers can pursue in school that still allow them to practice as therapists and all social workers with a masters who put in enough (state dependent) clinical hours under supervision post-graduation are eligible to pursue their "C" (going from licensed master social worker to licensed clinical social work) in which case they can not only practice therapy, but can open their own private practices and operate just as a licensed mental health counselor, or psychologist would (though one distinction is many social workers and LMHCs prefer to leave diagnosis to psychologists as SW/LMHC training tends to be less- diagnosis focused)

Because other things move in… it used to be there was smaller grocery stores… but those turned into Walgreens or CVS’s.

One time we had a grocery store that moved and our town library had to be renovated and they moved all the books into the old grocery store.

Now it’s a Whole Foods.

Ii honestly dont understand what the second paragraphs relevance.

Life imprisonment isn’t torture

If someone were to rape or murder my sister, the government will put them in the ground or I will.

Why do you want them to spend *less* time in prison?

Let them spend decades wasting away, forgotten by everyone they loved until they painfully die alone from natural causes.

Plants can survive being fully submerged in water. The real question is: for how long.

Outside ground tend to not stay "liquid water" for long, few hours and all the water has now soaked in. Then it stay very wet for some time, but soon enough the soil is now just very humid. The next day the sun dry it out enough (plus water even soaked in more) that the roots are now happy again and can start to dry themself up again. They don't have time to rot. Earth in a way is a bottomless sand and dirt pit.

In a pot however, it tend to stay soaked wet for days. By then you tend to rewater it up, so it stay damp. The root never dry up and rot. This is why you want to have a pot with holes at the bottom, so excess water can actually get out of the dirt.

Torturing people for decades doeesn't make society better. IMO it's better to utilise every prisoner as slave labour on civil works projects, and then compensate anyone found innocent.

In Australia, it costs roughly 1.5x the median wage to lock up a prisoner each day, so they should work at least 12 hours to make up that defecit.

Of course there's insane conflic of interest for governments to incarcerate people then, but one problem at a time.

You don’t actually! Psychiatrists (and PMHNPs) define therapy within their scope. No actual clinical training in it required.

Social worker is a term that can apply to a great many kinds of work, some of which is therapy and others are not. Helping people find jobs, housing, child protection services, and many other services all are done by social workers that are not providing therapy.

Social workers can be therapists, but not all therapists are social workers. 

Therapists can be someone with a background/license in social work, psychology, counseling. From there that's why you see different titles like MSW, MFT, LPC, etc.

It became unpopular as a sport because the winners were all cheating / running and the goal was to just not get caught by judges who had to watch every step in slo mo to see if they were cheating. A conceptually flawed competitive sport

As a kid I had the restraint bar pop up as the roller coaster left the station.  Was able to push it back down and lock it in place but it freaked me out and I've always wonder if I narrowly avoided something horrible.

Thank you for the info!

No. It's speculation. While the short answer is "we don't know for sure", there are legitimate theories backed by historical evidence and this is not one of those theories. Just because we're not sure of the real answer do was sent validate an the poorly thought out idea as a viable possibility. This sub is not a trivia game, it's not who can provide a good guess. Guessing is literally against the rules of the sub. OP doesn't know any better and believed this comment. 

Why do I say it's poorly thought out? Because it would not be confusing to just use 0, 1, 2, 3, etc. You announce the total game score before the game begins, not before every point. Anyone familiar would follow. Also, in tennis, we already use this for tiebreaks - a set at 6-6 is decided by a 7 point tiebreak. There is no confusion about game score and tiebreak score. 

Some junior/beginner programs use regular numbers in lieu of tennis' unique terminology to make it simpler so people aren't caught up in terminology. So somehow kids are able to follow it without getting confused. 

So it's not a working theory and it is not even a good point.

Therapist is the umbrella term and several different professions can be therapists including psychologists, counselors, social workers and marriage and family therapists. To be a therapist you need a master's degree or higher in your field and you have to complete specific clinical training with an associates license under supervision before you can be licensed to practice therapy independently.

We agree; I even called it immoral in my comment. But, the cost angle is import because not everyone shares our morals and which is why framing life imprisonment as a punishment equally bad if not worse than the death penalty is vital. We have to win over people who disagree with us

How are you counting 3 times, exactly? By my count, it would be either two appeals (the direct appeal and the collateral appeal), or far more than three if you break it up into each stage (state court of appeals, state highest court, U.S. Supreme Court, federal district court, federal appeals court, U.S. Supreme Court again, possible recursive appeals based on ineffective assistance of counsel or other grounds...).

There are usually many rounds of appeals.  

Which is only fair because while you can pay someone a half a million dollars for spending 20 years in prison after a prosecutor lied to get a conviction or a cop coerced a false confession, there's no way to undo an execution.

So that they can die on the streets because they have nothing left.

This is the correct answer.

A social worker tries to make sure someone has the resources they need to live well. They might find a way to get a TV for someone stuck in bed. Or access to home medical care. They do talk to people but they don't have a therapists training. A therapist also only talks to you as a medical professional, so they just don't do the same things. Sometimes they see the same people though.

Therapist or psychotherapist is the umbrella term. 

Social worker is someone who goes to school to study social work. It is a masters degree. They get licensed if they want to practice therapy. 

Psychologist is someone with a doctorate and license in psychology. A psychologist is also a therapist.

yea, if you compost its possible to have 100% organic material at the stage it is in soil, but its very different from soil.  Nobody would ever look at it and call it dirt.

This might be my new favorite insult lmao

its actually about blocking slip not adding hardness. carbon atoms wedge into the iron lattice and stop the layers sliding past each other. too much and it forms brittle iron carbide along the grain boundaries, so it cracks instead of bending

Where are you getting this conclusion that there was insufficient evidence? It looks to me like three studies supported the above conclusion.

There was a strong protective effect of childhood/adolescent circumcision on invasive penile cancer (OR = 0.33; 95% CI 0.13-0.83; 3 studies).

Regarding your first point, the “just take my word for it” argument doesn’t hold water. If you want to point out specifically why the data isn’t sufficient to support the conclusions, we can have a conversation.

I don't know for sure. The only reasonable explanation I can come up with is that proper dosing on a tiny baby could be really difficult, since a small amount could be the difference between a crisis and being ineffective. But even then, it sounds to me like ripping the tires off your car so you don't get a flat.

Therapists have very specific and focused education on doing therapy. Social workers have a broader education which can include therapeutic techniques. Most social workers will do specialized training in therapeutic techniques if they choose to do that professionally. Social workers have a lot more job options because of their more broad training. Source: I am one of these things and have a clinical master's degree in it.

See, I don't get this.

Why do you want them to spend *less* time in prison?

Let them spend decades wasting away, forgotten by everyone they loved until they painfully die alone from natural causes.

Oil can in theory ‘squirt’ to the surface, there are cases of oil close to the surface staring to sleep (sic) out of the ground.

Come and listen to my story ‘bout a man named Jed. A poor mountaineer, barely kept his family fed. And then one day he was shootin' at some food, and up through the ground came a-bubblin' crude.

when those same 3 points could just define a triangle

A triangle is the simplest polygon, and a polygon is 2-dimensional...

Banks basically over extended themselves on loans. They gave out too many loans to too many people, or entities, without realizing that a very significant number of those people were not able to pay them back.

Once the realisation set in all hell broke loose. Suddenly there was a massive money hole that was not going to be filled.

Yeah, but a 50 ton 'tator usually isn't going out to pick up your ~1½ ton Prius.

As someone who is circumcized, I wish my parents *hadn't* done it.

Over my teens and early adulthood I got splashed by boiling hot liquids, freezing cold liquids, and a even couple of chemical exposures.

No way to know for certain, but the data suggests the sporadic sensitivity issues (both highs and lows) I have now in my midlife are because I'm cut. The foreskin exists to protect the head of the penis and guard the urethra.

Being uncut might cause an issue if I were to convert since my wife is Jewish, and I'm fairly certain my in-laws are going to push for it for any sins, but those are social issues not medical ones.

It matters until the person files for bankruptcy. There may not be anything to take, but they will try everything to take it. Court cases, seizing assets, and garnishment are on the table.

I’ve negotiated well over 800 contracts. Insurance renewals, DPAs, MSAs, SOWs, even drafted a few laws. Often, there will be a dozen lawyers all sitting around the table, negotiating and collaborating. 

Few things in life give me more pleasure than, after agreeing on a particularly thorny contract, I reveal that I’m not an attorney.

sold industrial fasteners for years and we always called that the 'goldilocks zone.' what actually happens to the atoms when you cross that line and it goes brittle?

Ohh gotcha. So what’s the whole reasoning behind giving mortgages to people you know can’t pay it? The banks are not going to make back the money? Or are they?

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* ELI5 does not allow guessing.

Although we recognize many guesses are made in good faith, if you aren’t sure how to explain please don't just guess. The entire comment should not be an educated guess, but if you have an educated guess about a portion of the topic please make it explicitly clear that you do not know absolutely, and clarify which parts of the explanation you're sure of (Rule 8).

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

Just throw them in a hole and make them have to reconsider with what they did for the rest of their lifespan

There’s a lot of innocent people sentenced to death. That’s the far more salient point.

If the justice system was perfect, the death penalty would make sense. Given that it’s far from perfect, the death penalty makes zero sense and is fundamentally immoral

Well... The surface of the tube is aluminum *oxide*, for one. And you can also possibly quibble over "tube" – does it need to have a particular diameter? Or wall thickness? Is it supposed to be distinct from a "pipe", somehow?

Which mall in Rochester?

The good thing about the scoring system is that you until there is a winner, either player can still win. In fact, you can win a game but not win as many points a the other player.

I think that's an important thing to realize. It's not that "Indians are bad at tech support" it's that the minimum wage/labor laws/etc are lower, so they can hire unskilled workers, not train them basically at all, and pay them way less. If you picked up a bunch of teenagers from the US/EU, ~~you'd get arrested~~ and put them in front of a screen with a poorly written script and and had them provide support in Russian, you'd probably get the same result, if not worse, but it would cost 10x what it does to do that in India or the other areas where these call centers are often located.

Completely agree with everything you’ve said, but I would add that the death penalty is revenge killing at every point.

lol, you are clearly not a serious person

I once read that the scoring system was complicated through confuse the poor

Jail and prison are not the same thing. A jail is a local facility, usually run by a county or city, that holds people awaiting trial or serving short sentences, typically less than one year. A prison is a state or federal facility that houses people who have been convicted of more serious crimes and are serving longer sentences, usually more than one year.

It's a real answer, it's just not necessarily true

Two points only define a line segment, not a plane. A third point **must** be used to define a plane.

Think of a sheet of paper. If you have only two corners, you dont have a sheet of paper but just an infinitely thin edge. A third corner is needed to fill out the direction in which the sheet of paper (the plane) will go. If it's flat on the table or standing straight up, the third point will define the direction of the entire rest of the sheet of paper.

Think of a flag on a flag pole. Two corner points are attached to the rope or the pole. Hold the flag straight out by the other top corner, and the rest of the flag will be moved to follow that third point.

It’s the topic of this entire thread, dude. It’s in the title. Why are you being pedantic when you knew that the entire topic of this thread was non-collinear points before you even opened it?

Yes, that's how it is *supposed* to work.

You and I both know that's not how it always works.

Circimcision *is* in decline (i find the <50% statistic dubious, most sources I can find point at the last surveyed percentage being 60% and trending downward, but no more recent data saying it's <50% only projections that it is expected), because people have become better informed about the procedure and its risks, but it is still offered by default and not exclusively by request which means there are still people agreeing to it without a full understanding of what the procedure entails, because even if someone explains things there is no guarantee the parents understand it.

And despite that, many innocent people still get executed. So we can either throw more money at the court system which might improve its accuracy, or just retire the death penalty entirely.

We live in a society. It makes sense for you to want bloodlust for your kin but it’s society’s job to make sure we act more civil than that. It’s natural to want to be a monster in response to monstrous acts but that’s why we rely on other people to help us from giving into our worst impulses

Think of it like an old clock! They used to count by 15s around the clock face, so 15, 30, 45 (which became 40 for simplicity), and then 'game'.

Because the murdered person may get better....

Found the Steve Mould fan.

It’s not the only reason for the death penalty but it is the reason so many public pools got drained

Bagels and bread sticks is casual, common tennis terminology. Getting bageled means losing a match 6-0 and bread stick is 6-1. If a match has both 0s and 1s, the joke is that it was a trip to the bakery.

Which is why, if you’re innocent, it’s ironically better to be unjustly sentenced to death than life in prison.

I wouldn't want a death penalty if the error rate was one in a billion, but a one in twenty five chance is too fucking high. To even accept that level of error is to accept a ceaseless bloodthirst. It's just revenge killing at that point.

Or a triangle is a plane the with necessary bit removed.

No, but at least you can release them if you later uncover the truth.

Out of an abundance of caution to make sure they got it right. But even so innocent people have been executed.

The rich are fucking with us.... Post a job, interview a bunch of people, cancel the job, then repost same job later.  Companies are defrauding investors by making it appear that they are expanding, when indeed they are not.

This is the best answer on here so far.

Why no anesthetic? Isnt it making it worse on purpose

2 points: you can have tons of different planes, not just one, that have the same 2 points. 

3 (non collinear) points: you can have only one plane that has these points

4 points: you can have zero planes that have so 4 points

I loved the part about grain boundaries creating a vacuum that holds the material together.

Makes me wonder if a civilization could even advance without initial easy access to iron.

How is it with a majority they weren't able to do anything, yet when Republicans are in office no rules apply?

They could have given us universal healthcare day one without asking a single Republican. Why didn't they when Republicans openly stated they intended to filibuster everything?

Democrats have always had the choice to fix things, and chose the path of moderation and doing nothing every single time. Republicans have never chosen the moderate path, that Democrats have never once used their power to accomplish what they were voted in for goes beyond stupidity and into collusion.

You literally just said in America there is no other way to do this dude. 

And it’s propaganda that the customers need to supplement a server’s wage. It’s only set up like this in America, so the fact that no other country uses this method proves it’s shit.

"Your garage door was open" doesn't really hold up in this day and as he when everyone has cameras, but I guess if your cars being repoed your probably aren't in a financial position to sue. 

Any solution for getting a car parked multiple levels deep in a low clearance underground parking garage that you can't get a tow truck into? My cars paid off and I don't plan on ever needed to try to dodge a repo guy, was just curious haha.

Yeah not cutting off the tips of baby's dicks is misinformation, jfc.

It absolutely is harder to produce pure iron.

Cast iron is high carbon. That is what we discovered first because we were using charcoal to produce the heat to extract iron from ore and to heat the iron for fabrication.

With time, we developed the technology to remove carbon from the iron to low enough levels that you don’t get large graphite flakes (which make cast iron brittle). At low enough carbon levels, you get a material that behaves differently from cast iron , which we call steel.

Pure iron is difficult to make even today.

Brian J Morris, the main author from the first paper, is another straight up circumcision fanatic. He is an open, avowed, advocate. And has a long history of cherrypicking and bad methodology. 

the second paper you cited concluded there was insufficient evidence for a statistically significant protective effect overall, with some hints of benefit in men who primarily practiced insertive sex with other men. There was no causal evidence at all, completely observational. 

Try again?

In 1972 the US Supreme Court decided that the death penalty was being imposed arbitrarily and that was cruel and unusual punishment. This court case (Furman v Georgia) was widely heralded as the end of capital punishment in the US and immediately vacated over 600 death sentences. 

In 1976 the court approved a new process of imposing the death penalty (Gregg v Georgia) which opened the doors for executions in the US to resume. Basically they made the process of imposing death stricter and tried to remove a lot of discretion from it.

This means that a condemned prisoner have a lot of avenues to appeal at the state level and attack their convictions. But since the Supreme Court made executions a federal issue (cruel and unusual punishment shall not be imposed, the eighth amendment) every condemned person can appeal to that court as well as request clemency from the state’s governor.

Not at all, that answer explains nothing and it comes as a little bit misleading, there are other answers in this thread that actually explain the reason(s) that ocasionated the crisis, and even explained it on s truly ELI5 fashion.

Uh, got any recipe for that mead? My yard gets taken over by them in the spring, I could probably collect more than I can carry. All the recipes I can find also require honey for the sugar, not sure if that's what you meant

Two come to mind. 

1) a guy who was in jail for killing a cop. All witnesses recanted their testimony and said they were coerced into lieing to get the guy convicted. Governor didn't care and the cops wife someone was murdered in retaliation for her husband's death even if it wasn't the right guy

2) a guy was convicted of killing his daughter's in a house fire. There was evidence that all the information in the fire investigation were all wrong and based on assumptions and old wives tales, but it was ignored because it would hurt their case. And that they used the fact that he listened to rock music which meant he could kill people.

Depends on the truck (sling lift, wheel lift, flatbed, etc). Lift type tows, if you can pick up the drive end (front wheel drive and rear wheel drive) you can just keep the other end on the ground (as long as the parking brake isn’t on for a front wheel drive). All wheel drive or parking brake on in a front wheel drive, you would use a wheel dolly to set the wheels that need stay on the ground on. 

For a flat bed (tilt deck) you may be able to just drag the vehicle up without doing anything depending on surfaces and if you have a wet deck. In vehicles that are automatics with traditional cable linkages and have enough ground clearance to crawl under, you may be able to crawl under and disconnect the linkage and move the shift arm into neutral (make sure the wheels are chocked if you are going to attempt this) by hand or broom handle. The other option is to use what are called skids…basically small wedge looking devices that you get under the tires and allow the vehicle to slide on the road surface. 

On larger vehicles with full float axles you can actually pull the axle shafts out (of course you have to have enough space on either side of the vehicle to get those out) and free-hub the spindles. Of course, still have to deal with the brakes but on a vehicle with air brakes you can simply pressurize the air system or cage the brakes  using caging bolts to release them. 

A repo (snatch and grab) with a wheel lift is a much different scenario. Depending on the nature of the repo, the driver may not have time to do things right and may just drag the vehicle (knowing it will be damaged) until they can better prep and secure the vehicle.

yeah, very sad. We all saw him go downhill. Then it was clear that he was on something... then the big hammer fell and... well, he got caugh with something, went to jail, and because of that he can't be a repoman anymore as it require a clean file...

Very sad.

And the video he made once he was clean and all... Well, I don't recognise him at all, to the point where I wonder if it is even the same person... He lost lots of weight, and his personality isn't the same...

Your submission has been removed because it concerns, or has been prompted by, a recent or current event. Recent events are a topic not covered in ELI5 under Rule 2.  However, we have established a megathread for current events which can be found pinned to the top of the sub, sort posts by "Hot" if your reddit version cannot see the pinned posts otherwise. You could also consider trying a sub such as /r/news, /r/worldnews, /r/OutOfTheLoop, or /r/NoStupidQuestions. Please make sure to read their rules and their current megathreads (if related).

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It's open-ended vs. close-ended. If a system is "consisting of A, B, and C" it includes *only* A, B, and C. D or E cannot be included. If a system "comprises A, B, and C" then it includes *at least* A, B, and C, but can also include D and E.

That's the issue - they both mean "includes", but then have different limitations on what that extends to.

Yeah really cool to research the different Japanese steels they make kitchen knives out of. Most popular ones are Blue 1 and Blue 2 (Aogami) and White 1 and White 2 (Shirogami). Named after the color of paper they come out of the factory in. Explanation.

Before i mock you, do you have any neurodivergence i should be aware of?

I appreciated your answer lol

Can you please justify to me why I should tip someone who doesn’t create the menu or cook the food, but they ferry my drinks and meal to me and bring me the bill. Why should I pay them $30 for smiling and saying hi, but the kitchen workers who are crafting the product that I come for should get fucked? 

Why wouldn’t I tip my mechanic or my plumber, who actually have skills and provide valuable services to society?

Isn’t that the official definition of comprise? It’s a synonym for “includes.”

Here’s for example the graph from my (french) engineering book

Ah yes...phase diagrams...the first time I looked at them in under grad I was like what the heck.

By "remove" i don't think they mean "cut". they probably mean like a permanent removal at the bed of your nail so the nail actually never grows back. It's the only way the comparison works.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, I concur with this post.

A study concluded that at minimum 4.1% of the people on death row will be found not guilty, if they aren't executed first. Even though the burden of proof for death penalty cases is slightly higher than for life in prison cases.

The biggest argument against sleeping with single moms is her labia?  ... not the kid in the other room that you may or may not become responsible for if the relationship persists. 

"Hey, why did you stop dating her, was it because you would also need to take care of a child eventually?" 

"nah bro, totally her labia" 🙄

Imagine one point with an infinite line through it. You can spin and twist and orient the line anywhere you want without it leaving that anchor point. But when you stick a second anchor on it suddenly there’s no movement at all anymore. The second point defines a unique line through the first point by limiting the options to only one line that fits both.

Now imagine a plane through those two points. It has to include the line, but you can spin around that line and have the plane oriented any direction. If you add a third point on the line (collinear) then it still spins freely around. But if your third point is not on the line then it stops the spinning and now the plane is anchored in the direction containing the third point. This means a third point is enough to define a unique plane in much the same way the second point anchored a unique line.

The rest of the world seems to manage. 

Yes, because they *all* do it. If you own a restaurant in the US, it isn't practical to just do what you suggested.

Also, if something is too irredeemable to be left alive, killing them would free them from the consequences of their actions.

I absolutely love this topic and got way too into it when I was studying blacksmithing, sword making, and differential tempering.

Like so many people equate brittle with fragile. Like a diamond is hard but also brittle and no one would call a diamond fragile. And with a blade you want it to be really hard so it keeps a sharp edge, but also bendable because flinging around hard steel is a lot a strain and could snap the blade. The whole process to walk that line is fascinating.

"3 points define a plane" is a bit of a shorthand.  More formally, if P, Q, R are 3 non-collinear points in 3D space, then there exists exactly 1 unique plane containing P, Q, R.

The rest of the world seems to manage. Just USA with their own fucked up version of economics.

Carbon atoms are a fair bit smaller than iron so they tend to fit into gaps between the iron atoms rather than just replacing one, this stiffens the overall crystal structure causing it to become less flexible.

I’ve seen a lot of good answers and maybe I just haven’t scrolled far enough but one thing I haven’t seen anyone mention is the water table. When it rains the water soaks into the ground and begins to filter downwards until it reaches rock then spreads as far as it can. So most the water is leeching out of the soil rather fast and down into the water table. The soil will hold some of the water so the plants can sustain themselves.

Their ability to generate realistic sentences gives an illusion that they're sentient, and calling them "AI" reinforces that idea. It's all marketing

Sea plants exist. That should settle this question honestly. If plants can live in aquatic environments then they can evolve to also live in less wet environments post deluge.

seems like the second part of that sentence probably should have taken precedent, no?

Every death row inmate has the legal right to appeal their sentence 3 times. We don’t put a limit on how much time their lawyers can spend on those appeals because we want to give them as much time as possible to do the best for their client. This can result in the appeal process taking decades as the inmates legal team do their best to get their client something that isn’t a death sentence.

Because if you have 2 points and connect them (or any number of colinear points greater than two) you have a 1 dimensional object - a line.

In order to have a 2 dimensional shape you need at least 3 non-colinear points.

I am not for the death penalty. But I have never lost a family member to violence. If someone were to rape or murder my sister, the government will put them in the ground or I will. And yes there are shitty people who want to hurt people. But it's not the only reason for death penalty.

Also rustiness, and a few other "ess"es.

The most recent one I learned about was the does-not-create-internal-methane-bubbles-and-explode version.

Businesses used to just say they were using machine learning instead of calling it "AI", that term really caught on as a buzzword with LLMs

AI has meant a lot of things in the past, but most people would have associated it with scifi and video games

If you really want your mind blown, go watch Veritasium’s YouTube video about the engineering of jet engines. It had the best demonstration of dislocations that I’ve ever seen. And dislocations (or rather, making it harder for dislocations to move) is one of the keys to increasing strength in a metal.

I think the person you originally replied to already explained it but basically giving a mortgage to someone who is less likely to be able to continue paying it. Maybe bad credit score or not making as much money as a “prime” candidate.

Honestly it’s crazy to me how all these crises follow basically the exact same playbook. 1. Things are going well. 2. Since things are going so well, what if we made even more money by doing something we probably shouldn’t? 3. Market crash. 4. The people at fault take their golden parachutes and move on to destroying something else.

Correct. Not... remotely... similar.

Out of curiosity, are you pro-life or pro-choice.  I've always wondered if anti-circumcision tended to be left or right ideology.

Some cars are actually pretty darn difficult to jack up with a floor jack.  Source - my AC Cobra and my Morgan are both pretty darn hard.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

ELI5 is not for subjective or speculative replies - only objective explanations are permitted here; your question is asking for subjective or speculative replies. 

Additionally, if your question is formatted as a hypothetical, that also falls under Rule 2 for its speculative nature. 

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

Copied from another comment:

This isn’t the only study.

The single risk factor of lack of circumcision confers a 23.3% chance of urinary tract infection during the lifetime.

Men circumcised in childhood/adolescence are at substantially reduced risk of invasive penile cancer

I'm not what's your point

This isn’t the only study.

The single risk factor of lack of circumcision confers a 23.3% chance of urinary tract infection during the lifetime.

Men circumcised in childhood/adolescence are at substantially reduced risk of invasive penile cancer

This is the answer I was looking for in this entire thread. Yes, there’s a lot of supply and demand, but that’s secondary to your rate of profit. Most places are going to try to make a 60% margin. And they will if they can, or more, as you can see from places where competition doesn’t matter: airports, gas stations, highway rest areas. Everywhere else needs to make a profit, but they also don’t make a profit if they don’t sell the product, so they need to entice you somehow to go there to buy it. In a lot of places the enticement is price: Walmart is not a wonderful place to go, but you do because they have the best price.

And machining it is a royal pain in the ass. Not as bad as some other alloys, but it's up there.

"He's hurting the wrong people"

a lack of an Oxford comma cost dairy $5 million

Wait!! You’re telling the reason I (a left hander) have never been able to properly use a potato peeler is because of the design???!

Imagine a tree. When it's a sapling you wouldn't be able to climb it because it would bend over. As it gets older and stronger it can support your weight. Until eventually it gets old, the branches dry out, and now they would snap under your weight.

Just one of those things where minor actions can potentially save you a *very* big bill. 

Super likely? Not really. But much like my floor jacks having a statistically low failure rate, I still put extra supports, just in case. I've seen the results of a failed pawl, just like I've seen failed jacks at an anecdotally same rate. Takes no time to just put that brake on, just in case.

The biggest piece is they have to give a fuck about not damaging the car.  In my experience, this is the biggest obstacle.

you're the one contradicting decades of public health research across credible institutions. now THAT'S some misinformation!

Ahh gotcha. So what’s the difference between subprime mortgage and a normal mortgage? I know I could just google it haha

On top of that, hear me out.. If they happen to be innocent they at least have the chance to prove it.

Do you think court takes 15 minutes like on TV? The law is complicated

If you really want to have fun, read up on how different eutectics and annealing processes can take a relatively low number of base constituents and produce an astounding number of alloys. Principles of Materials was easily the most interesting non-core class I took.

Easier said than done. In reality that results in a) higher menu prices, which makes your restaurant look more expensive relative to others and b) makes your restaurant less appealing for waitstaff to work in.

This is exactly it. We live in a shitty world because people will sacrifice so much in order to hurt people.

Billions of years of evolution... also plants that grow in a spot are happy with the amount of moisture that spot gets, if not then that plant wouldn't have grown. When conditions change  then plants die and new ones take their place.

Side note, most indoor plants that suffer is due to OVER watering... unless the leaves are crispy try reducing how much water you give them

That's off the chain.

Many people in the United States will pay any price to have the government hurt people they don’t like, and they won’t lose a wink of sleep over it. No argument or statistic will convince them otherwise. They just want to hurt people.

So, what jobs, then? What jobs shouldn’t people work because those jobs aren’t paying enough? If you don’t want to tip the people who serve your meals, then just say so instead of blaming them for not getting paid enough money.

I been "low status" all my life,  it did not prevent me from getting dates in my youth or finding a mate. My damn mental issues were the biggest hurdle, my social status was a non issue.

If you bring it up to them, they always blame the existence of the appeals process. Some people are simply bloodthirsty.

I'm verbally against the application if the death penalty, but it was justice when the white Supremacists who dragged James Byrd Junior behind their truck were killed by the state of Texas. One of them demanded a bunch of food for their final meal and then ate none of it, so now the state stopped taking requests for the final meal. 2/3 bastards were executed, the third got life because is some stupid reason.

Yes. They've been convicted of an offense where the penalty is death. If you execute them and then it turns out they weren't guilty, well, it's kind of hard to bring them back to life. 

Whereas if they're just sentenced to a long time or life in prison and you find out they didn't do it, you can release them and maybe make restitution.

No actually, this has nothing to do with Carbon’s valence electrons, it’s entirely due to the physical reality of crystallization.

Worth mentioning that up until that point mortgage backed securities were considered very reliable assets, I suppose because it was assumed that whoever gave out the mortgage did their due diligence. Obviously with these subprime mortgages this wasn’t the case, which contributed to the whole crisis because buyers did not realize that these assets were much riskier than they seemed. (Please correct me if I’m wrong, my knowledge is based on large part on watching Th Big Short like 10 years ago.

Only 2 wheeled lock on most cars, 4x4 lock them all if engaged. They pick it up from whatever side doesn’t have them locked. If you pull the parking brake, that locks the rear tires, in a front wheele drive, they’ll all be locked. In a rear wheel drive, the front is always just open, unless you’re actively pressing the brake from inside the car. So, front wheele drive, just pull the E brake, but, they also have like Dollie’s they can put under the tires to move the car, that’s kinda new though.

The cost of housing and childcare and transportation to work is high. If the pay for jobs won't cover rent and childcare and transportation, people can't take those jobs.

I think people need to adopt a "if it can happen to anyone, it can happen to me" mindset about galse convictions but most don't think to that point 🤷‍♂️

So…. Non-consensual cutting of child sexual organs? Not… remotely… similar?

Yes they should. But they don’t in America. So if they don’t like it they shouldn’t take those jobs

Yep.  An abandoned supermarket just gets turned into something else. EZPZ.

An abandoned mall would need a huge effort of time and money to get going again.

I mean… yes?

Quick search results:

Death Row Exonerations: At least 202 people have been exonerated and freed from U.S. death rows since 1973.

Disproportionate Risk: This equates to one innocent person being condemned and later exonerated for every eight executions carried out nationwide.Likely 

Wrongful Executions: Advocates estimate that dozens of executed individuals were innocent, with the American Civil Liberties Union highlighting at least 21 executed inmates whose innocence was strongly supported by subsequent evidence.

I genuinely don’t think so because callousness can account for them not caring about the innocent people that the system has killed but something being more expensive affects them directly. Those kinds of people are upset about any societal mechanism that they have to pay money for so I think they would be mad about this in a sane world.

So the business should set the prices to accommodate those wages, not make customers play these stupid games

Not those specific jobs.

That’s fine. Set the menu prices to accommodate living wages for their staff servers instead of making customers play this awkward shame game every time. 

Except I’m sure the servers prefer it the way it is because they make bank on cash income with no tax.

Then set the food prices to accommodate the wage they want for their staff and stop making customers play this stupid shame game

Honestly, I think most advocates for the death penalty do understand that, but don't care because they think it's "justice". They don't even care that we know people have been put to death for crimes they didn't commit.

Yep, materials can be soft but brittle (Think cookies)

Steel when its first hardened, is actually very hard and brittle. By tempering it, you can trade off a little bit of hardness for a massive amount of ductileness/toughness, where it still will be hard but no longer brittle.

But if they are spending decades in court for something which is serious enough to be put to death over, then they probably can't be let roam free. Hence the prison.

That’s… not correct. Traffic light poles are actually a pretty moderate spec, and the surface you see is generally galvanizing which is primarily zinc. Steel grains are way smaller than that, and you generally need a microscope and an enchant to see them at all. The rest of it is also not how metal works, but what would I know as I’ve only been a practicing metallurgist in the steel industry for the better part of two decades.

Because it's intended to be as unambiguous as possible, and English is just not good at that, so you need lots more words and jargon and descriptive phrases and such.  Also the law is just a technical field, so there's lots of jargon anyway.

That's where we are right now.

It doesn’t always result in years to decades with the time between conviction and that’s more of a US thing.

As someone who had it happen. It wasn't my choice. It should have been my choice.

The important clarification I’m not seeing in other comments is that a point and a line define a number of possible planes, while three points define _exactly one_ plane.  

You can imagine for instance two planes intersecting on a line forming an X.  Now imagine all the other planes that could intersect on that line.  There are infinitely many.

But when you add a third point which is not on that same line, it can only land on exactly one of those planes intersecting on the line.

So the third point narrows down the possible planes to exactly one.

I've driven manual only for decades and I hardly ever put the handbrake on unless i'm on a steep hill. What's the point? Park in gear.

Seems strong yet properly flexible to me l? 
Maybe assessment is  a bit brittle?

Bottom and sides are insulated. Depending on the cup, only like 20% of the liquid is not insulated

My wife use to watch Death row stories and there were a lot of people who got exonerated later on.  Some were so obvious it was scary it took so long.  We’re talking about people who were nowhere near the scene of the crime and on camera not near the crime scene who got convicted all because of one witness who later recanted.

I use to be pro death penalty but I can’t support it knowing innocent people got executed.

Feels like everyone keeps trying to add extra constraints to prove their point! lol. But have fun guys.

Appeals take a long time. For death penalty cases, there are generally at least two sets of appeals. The first is a direct appeal, where the underlying trial is attacked. Then there is a habeas appeal, where other issues are litigated like newly discovered evidence, mental capacity, etc. There can sometimes be more than one habeas, although federal law limited subsequent habeas motions about 30 years ago. Each of these take years.

I mean, that won't stop a tow truck but if trucker really wants it then is relatively cheap and easy to fix/replace 2 tires or rear brakes

202 people have been exonerated after receiving a death sentence. The average time spent on death row for those exonerated was 13 years. That's why it takes decades.

You said, "new parents." You didn't specify family members. And it's still weird to ask your niece or nephew why they're thinking about their baby masturbating when you're the one thinking about their kids' genitals. Just stop asking invasive questions. You can advocate for something without being weird about it.

Thank you for mentioning the cost angle. So many people don’t understand that. The death penalty doesn’t make sense morally or economically. Just throw them in a hole and make them have to reconsider with what they did for the rest of their lifespan

It is not the same reason. If you think its the same reason, you clearly don't understand it, because circumcision for males is NOT for the express purpose of decreasing sensitivity.  

I will say if people are doing FOR that purpose, then that should be condemned.  But I've never heard of anyone in the alas doing it for that reason.

UCLA - Uphill with a Curb, turn wheel Left Always

It's to the right in any other case. Still remember that from Driver's Ed lol.

In the wise words of Akinyele...

Yeah, I frankly don't want killing people to be the convenient option either.

Build me a table. 

Use a flat plank of wood for the top. For the legs, what the minimum number you can use without your table wobbling?

Appeals, politics, availability of drugs, and the chance someone is actually innocent. The younger me was for it if someone deserved it and still do believe that in some cases. The logical older me sees that life in prison is probably far cheaper to the cost of putting someone on deathrow.

I've met elderly people in different places that have never left their hometown besides maybe a vacation here or there. I don't think any of them remember their driving exam, let alone what seems like common sense driving practices. 

I've met people that have somehow never parallel parked, and taken a driving exam that did not require (maybe the examiner didn't care) parallel parking, but parallel parking was a part of my driving exam when I took it. I've also met one person that refused to parallel park, wouldn't even attempt it even if there were 3 spaces open in a row. They just flat out refused to learn it, or would get out and make someone else do it if there were passengers (i.e. Me).

My favorite comment so far said "Leave it as is, as God intended." Certainly a one-of-a-kind response, and could basically stand as a beacon of why not to trust reddit comments.

And rightly so, may I point out. It should not be considered 'easy' or 'convienient' for the state to kill people for the sake of saving costs, that is a really dangerous path. And secondly because the number of death row inmates that are later exonerated through DNA evidence etc is terrifying

[ Removed by Reddit ]

If you have two points you can subtract one from the other to work out the vector between them. 

Two points then will only give you one possible plane that's perpendicular to the line between them, and passes through one of the points.

A death penalty once administered is final.

So there are a whole set of legal rules that must be gone through to ensure that every legal check that must be gone through actually is. This all takes time. Time for the lawyers involved to gather evidence, make arguments and appeal for clemency.

This also means expense and a lot of it. A death penalty case is expensive and it requires a very specialised lawyer to make sure that every legal check is done.

Because NOBODY wants to be held responsible for "killing an innocent man"

Those decades are basically spent covering everyone's ass as much as possible so if the guy turns out to be innocent everyone can say they did everything they could. One of them fucked up, but everyone else are covered

In addition to all the stated reasons, you wanna be real sure the person you're putting to death is actually guilty.  There have been cases of people being proven innocent after being killed and you can't really bring them back.  Every single tax payer has been complicit in their murder, essentially.

Where did you get strangers from? I'm talking family members, as a father with multiple boys. All though, I do publicly advocate that we should immediately stop mutilating babies gentials. If that's more weird than doing it... More power to you

Basically, they were giving anyone and everyone a mortgage and also the interests rates were variable so peoples house prices went underwater and their mortgage payments went up and people just walked away from their homes, leading to a massive glut of foreclosed homes which further made the problem worse.

Not all beers have wheat , a good deal don't

I think you mean project and then I think you mean a vector?

Because the court system allows repeals on the death sentence. Basically those decades are the prisoner fighting for his life— costing the taxpayers an inordinate amount of money relative to life sentencing. As explained to me, when I was near 5.

It's a combination of  the appeals process (both sides need to prepare documentation, make arguments, etc), execution supply (drugs, etc. that are very specific, heavily regulated, and only made by a handful of companies), and the thumb of politics.

The little Dollies are cool (depending) I have a classic car all wheel drive conversion and I was surprised/imoressed the first time a tow driver brought those out

The study "found" nothing. The study's researchers created a "simulation", a faulty one, and then applied african hetersexual epidemics models to US populations.

One of the authors, Author Tobin, is a circumcision fanatic and all his research on the matter is at best suspect and at worst completely worthless.

Lots of appeals, typically. There's political tension between people who want death penalties, who take a hard line on them being possible; and those who don't want death penalities, which will make them as difficult as possible to actually accomplish. Currently death penalties are very unpopular, so most places don't allow them, and the places that do have severe delays.

Because death penalty cases automatically trigger a series of appeals. It's also why it's more expensive than life in prison.

You are totally right. I didn’t follow the logic the way they originally worded it but I did figure it out. I was visualizing two spheres around those points

That but also when you do water them, you *water* them. I have a few succulents with excellent drainage, so when it comes to watering them, I flood their little pots.

There's also a huge variety of steels with a diversity of bendyness for different applications.

You are actively attempting to misinform. The study "found" nothing. The study's researchers created a "simulation", a faulty one, and then applied african hetersexual epidemics models to US populations. 

One of the authors, Author Tobin, is a circumcision fanatic and all his research on the matter is at best suspect and at worst completely worthless.

My guess is it has something to do with chemistry, and how the various atoms react with each other.

Do not evade the automod.

Yeh I remember seeing it in a film based in the middle ages and it looked so out of place.

The majority of people in most other countries around the world don't do this. So no explanation to women (or men) if travelling, on the main

When home prices are climbing like a Moon rocket, pretty much any scheme that involves buying one will make money. That will trick people into thinking they are financial geniuses.  And then they double down thinking it will work forever because they are so smart.

K copy and paste the conclusion from the bottom link now

Yes, we're in agreement about that. 

Please pay attention to the specific part of your comment that I actually quoted and was replying to. I used a quote reply for a reason. 

You said their method doesn't actually define a single ambiguous plane because no direction is specified. I was explaining that their method does actually define an unambiguous single plane, even though **both you and I** do not agree that it is the same as "two points defining a plane".

With foreskin, oral is, well, strange. But with sex it seems to heighten the sensation.

yeah, but you have chemistry, at least

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #1 of ELI5 is to *be civil*.

Breaking rule 1 is not tolerated.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

Steel needs a specific amount of carbon. If you just allow impurities from smelting to saturate your iron, you get pig iron, a useless junk.

Conclusion: Adult male circumcision was not associated with sexual dysfunction. Circumcised men reported increased penile sensitivity and enhanced ease of reaching orgasm. These data indicate that integration of male circumcision into programs to reduce HIV risk is unlikely to adversely effect male sexual function

This doesn't go against what I'm saying at all. Are you really this fucking bad at reading? Holy shit people can be so stupid

So much of effects - whether visual or audio - is designed not to replicate reality but to create a version of reality that the audience accepts as truth within the frame.  Hollywood strives for verisimilitude rather than true life.

Foley artists spend their career creating sounds that don't just mimic the thing exactly, but create the illusion of the thing occurring.  Same with visual effects.

“But do they have Krusty’s Partially-gelatinated non-dairy gum-based beverages?”

Aesthetics, completeness, and just overall personal preference. It's a part of my body that I want to have. Your presumption that I could only possibly care about the physical sensation is ridiculous. I've hardly even thought about sensitivity in regard to foreskin. I want to be intact in the same way that I want eyebrows. It's what's right for me.

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #1 of ELI5 is to *be civil*.

Breaking rule 1 is not tolerated.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #1 of ELI5 is to *be civil*.

Breaking rule 1 is not tolerated.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

**Please read this entire message**

---

Your comment has been removed for the following reason(s):

* Rule #1 of ELI5 is to *be civil*.

Breaking rule 1 is not tolerated.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe it was removed erroneously, explain why using this form and we will review your submission.**

First, you need to know that metals have crystals. Between two identical steel recipes, larger crystals result in a softer steel. We often call these crystals grains. 

With really low amounts of carbon, the carbon is all spread out evenly. Once you go above 0.4% carbon, the carbon and iron chemically combine into a compound called cementite. This is extremely brittle material, but also very hard. It forms little alternating layers with the pure iron (this layered structure is called pearlite).

As you increase the amount of carbon, the cementite layers get thicker, making the steel harder and stronger. You eventually add too much, and you begin to form layers of cementite not just within the crystals, but around them. Adding carbon up to and beyond this point increases hardness dramatically, but it also makes it that much more brittle. At these high carbon levels, the way you treat the steel can cause the carbon to form structures within the steel, like needles or spheres. 

Toughness is the total energy you need to permanently deform or break your steel. Strength is the total force you need to deform or break your steel (weak vs strong). Hardness is just strength on the surface of the metal. Elasticity is the amount of deformation it can withstand before permanent deformation or breaking (pliable vs brittle). Manipulating the carbon content, grain size, and carbon structure lets us produce a steel with the properties we need. Increasing one of these often means sacrificing another.

I never disagreed. But demanding that kind of information from strangers, specifically new parents, is pretty fucking weird, homie.

Did you even read the links you posted 😂

(You should know that) the data/conclusions presented contradicts what you're frothing over.

Not quite as weird as mutilating babies gentials.

There is no decreased sensitivity there are countless studies showing this.

If this isn't your issue then what is?

Triangle is just plane with edges that limit where it exists.  
Planes and plane kind of things have one defining feature, that is that they can be looked from suitable angles so that they have no noticeable thickness, so we could just take triangle and expand it to have it's edges be infinitely further and we would approach true plane.

So as result since they kind of are same thing, they can be defined with same amount of points.

Also if we have those 3 points, since plane is still 2 dimensional shape (even if it's positioning in 3D space might be in what ever rotation and position) then we can just draw plane in one position so that it will touch all those 3 points.

So, there's kinda two parts to this. Naturally forming things usually fall into a sort of 'area'. Hardness often includes brittleness. Softness often includes ductility. 

Then we started making alloys. Steel. Bronze. Brass.

Now we can make some *weird* stuff. Hadfield Steel (Mangalloy. Ya'll played subnautica 2 recently?). High Entropy Alloys remain super hard while also being heated to insane temperatures. Inconel has cryogenic properties. Many materials inherently become brittle at super low temperatures, but certain alloys remain less brittle when formed properly.

It's almost like animal breeding. You take certain crystalline features of various metals and mix them together to get 'just perfect' results.

Oh you want one comparing adults who were circumcised in adulthood who rated their sensitivity and pleasure before and after the procedure? Sure, here you go:

Conclusions: Adult male circumcision was not associated with sexual dysfunction. Circumcised men reported increased penile sensitivity and enhanced ease of reaching orgasm. These data indicate that integration of male circumcision into programs to reduce HIV risk is unlikely to adversely effect male sexual function. 

Here's another: 

and another

You're literally just saying shit you don't understand anything about. So what did you use to make your oh so important decision? Vibes? Reddit comments? You're fucking embarrassing yourself

It’s pronounced Sadè

Spacial relation has nothing to do with how much one body part can affect another.

This is true, but I'll add one more thing. Often as these sorts of documents are worked out it starts pretty simple and relatively easy to understand. But as you go back forth with drafts, and think of new things that need to be included, you get a lot of exceptions, and caveats, and carve outs, and special cases. Then, the next time you need a document that does basically the same thing, you start with the one that's been thoroughly worked over, then work it over some more for the new situation. So you get these documents that the up looking like the tax code.

This isn't a popularity contest. Younger people are also living with their parents into their late 20's.

Jewish circumcisions are traditionally performed at home by a rabbi.

And again, I've never had the feeling that my penis wasn't sensitive *enough*. If it *is* less sensitive then that has never stopped me from enjoying the physical sensation of sex (or masturbation) or prevented me from orgasming. Hell, there's been times I *wished* it was less sensitive so that I could last longer, but that's another story I suppose.

My point is that with this method you need the 2 points as well as an equation, which is additional information. In order to represent that plane using only points, or to represent the plane visually, you would need at least 3. You could then use your set to solve for 3 points that could demonstrate the plane. 

Most middle school kids could plot out and then understand the plane with 3 sets of coordinates whereas very few could decipher that set to solve for the plane. Therefore 3 points is the simplest form of defining a plane.

Also “is the set being defined.” You only gave 2 inputs, but those inputs defined a set of points (an infinite number of them in fact) which represent the plane.

I grow watermelon and it's how I make my living.  I being it to market and offered every watermelon for $10 and sell a few but I have a lot so I go back next week.

Next week, the other famer, fucking Randy, is there he is undercutting me and selling them for $8 I now sell no watermelons 

I have 3 choices, undercut randy, match randy and split sales or buy out Randy's stock and dominate the market

The seller controls the price but the buyer can walk away and leave you holding the bag

Thats what we had to tell this guy! I think we had to show him NSFW content to prove that when hard you can't tell

You have absolutely no basis to make that judgment about how or why I feel the way I do about my body and it is insulting that you think you have that right.

There was a great behinds the scenes video during the production of Pixar's Brave.  The movie takes place in a heavily forested area, and there was a guy who was brought into the production just to develop an algorithm to generate random trees.  He spent a bunch of time studying and analyzing tree patterns - branch development, limb count and hierarchy.  Everything down to leaf size and count.  The resulting formula was incorporated into the pipeline to generate and render the lush forests.

A similar thing happened in the production of Frozen.  They spent a lot of time in pre-production studying the physical properties of different types of snow.  How it sticks, flows, crunches, etc.

Animation isn't just for artists anymore.

It's still not your place to ask. Pretty weird that you do.

also, because this seems relevant to you:

But we know many procedures are more painful/difficult later in life.  Tonsillectomy would be another common example.

Perhaps, but you definitely can't say that it's just a case of everyone likes their penis as it is. There are a lot of people who don't, and at least in my experience, they've literally always been circumcised. I have never come across someone with an intact penis who would prefer to have been circumcised.

A moving average is more akin to integration than differentiation, since you are accumulating values up to a windowing function.

because the internet told you to be ashamed of your body... There is no decreased sensitivity there are countless studies showing this.

You don't know how to interpret studie. All you did is read the conclusion and role with it... Very aggressively.

The data you presented is faulty.... Because the circumcized group doesn't know what sex feels like for a non circumcized person(and vice versa). There's no mention of actual comparison.

You don't know what you're talking about. Be quiet.

If you have 100 short people and 100 jobs thaf require you to be tall then you don't any jobs for the short people and don't have any workers for the tall jobs!

I find this such a strange thing to even think about and how it’s so widespread in the world for so many years. 

Whether your justification is based on religion, tradition, or culture I struggle to understand the thought process of “look at this beautiful human being we’ve created… but it’s he’s not quite perfect so let’s slice a piece of his dick off” 

Medical reasons are understandable because we’ve evolved and learnt to use surgery to solve problems and improve quality of living but taking a knife to a non-consensual fully healthy person “just because that’s what people do” is barbaric beyond belief.

then edit your comment to include both perspectives. or do you think one random internet stranger's opinion is worth more?

Cyberpunk has Megabuildings which are basically skyscraper cities.

Nichrome (nickel+chrome) is probably the most widely used material on that end of the spectrum.

They slim Jim the door open, and release the parking break.

Ooo thanks! Almost missed it again.

There are always outliers. Im not debating that. And thats the a known issue with the internet; a small minority can find each other a feel like a bigger percentage then they actually are.

you're just being ignorant. its literally a google search away and you're choosing ignorance

My now ex wife was a hairdresser and was able to buy two houses then.

I was never a waiter. I cooked in my younger days and would always see the waitresses counting their fat stacks of cash at the end of shift making way more than I did. My wife was also a waitress when she was younger and made good money. This was just at a small town breakfast/lunch place. Plus I've just been around long enough to know they make decent money.

Not really. We're steel chill here.

One reduces physical sensation and one doesn’t. You can easily google this instead of sounding this ignorant

All 6 of my little brothers got them. All got local anesthetic at the hospital. Even at a bris they are usually getting lidocaine at minimum. A very small percentage of jew perform a bris with any meds but its becoming increasingly rare. If you need proof of the  hospital procedures or common bris practices.

A simpler point that some may overlook - iron atoms are a lot heavier than carbon atoms. Iron weighs 55.8, and carbon, 12. So cementite is 3:1 iron atoms to carbon atoms, but contains 93% iron by weight.

oil is commonly found in the top 2 to 10 inches of the earths crust?

There’s also those saying they had it done as an adult and it didn’t and you guys are downvoting them

And you can listen to anecdotes or actually look up studies done on adults who were circumcised that show not only was there no reduction in sensitivity but some studies actually showed increased sensitivity. 

Do you guys never just fucking google shit?

I and many other circumcised men wish that it had never happened. I would much prefer to be intact.

I remember one of the engineers I was working with came to me and told me the market pretty much crashed. It all happened in a blink of an eye.

There's nothing I said that isn't true.
Be quiet

Supermarkets are necessary for life. 

The products of most shops in most malls are not necessary for life. They're nice to have, but not necessary.

Is there any material that's extremely hard and extremely ductile?

Technically correct. The best kind of

I think silly people are equating visible labia with having pushed out a baby, which is ridiculous, and then also saying visible labia are ugly. Sadly, silly people are legion.

Who said anything about forcefully? I’m talking about the normal way it comes back. 

remove that part out

I see what ya did there.

Yeah. Seeds are very different.

Would it be valid to say that a *very* loose metaphor is taking a graph of a bunch of values and producing a moving average?

It’s a completely safe procedure with no downsides

this is just not true. maybe it’s *low-risk*, but there are lots of complications. it happened to my friend (complications from the procedure) and it makes him suicidal because of how it affects his life and his body image. they do this procedure on babies for no medical reason and it can cause a lot of anguish later in life. i think it’s disgusting. i don’t care if you want to get circumcised, but why do they do it before you are actually able to communicate that want?

That’s just not true if you look at any research but apparently you couldn’t spare the 10 seconds

Easy material to karma whore off of. 

It’s like when people go to the television subreddit to ask “hey guys should I watch this show called The Wire??”

He didn’t say he had to have it done. It was his choice.

I can't wait until everything collapses into a single average and there is zero distribution.

It's required to become licensed, not necessarily to drive. And even then, it's more required for parking than driving.

Not them but I feel the same. I think people just like their penis regardless if cut or not cut. I do see a lot of uncut people coping a lot about how circumcised people are mutilated. I feel like a lot of uncut men are a bit defensive about it and lash out at the idea of circumcision. I dont think ive ever heard a story where a circumcised guy mutilated that way unless something went horribly wrong. Its not the same as female mutilation.

You are correct that the degree of freedom in rotating the plane about it's normal is what allows dropping a point.

When you use three points, you not only lock whether a point p is "on" the plane, you also lock it's "address" (relative to the three points and the order they were specified). And as long as you're considering order, you also get "which half of the embedding space is 'above' the plane?"

When using the two points (whether bisecting or as a point + a vector), you lose addressing (due to rotation), but keep the "up" (due to ordering of the inputs).

When using the one point Hesse Normal Form that OP mentioned in another comment, you gain another degree of freedom by losing that sense of "up". (You could say "away from the origin is up", but then you lose the ability to define planes where the origin is "above" the plane.)

I completely agree.  Whenever someone argues in favour of female circumcision, (granted not a lot of people in the western world do) the arguments are the same - "it's cleaner." If it's barbaric for girls, why is it okay for boys?  It's an awful double standard.

Look up Kellogg.  
It's just a product of creepy sexual control beliefs.  It has no place in civilised society.

I definitely believe the egg theory as to why we say 'love'. Doesn't make any sense otherwise.

Same REASON
Reading comprehension is dead

The healing process and the way the nerves regrow make it way better to do young

Oh some areas around me have the water table at 8-10 feet. A friend's neighbors built a custom home and wanted like a luxury underground bunker of sorts. Idk how it got permitted as they barely dug halftge depth needed and they were building a self filling swimming hole. This was like 40x80 feet and it had to be refilled, compacted and graded. The craziness comes from the fact that my neighbors well is drilled 70 feet from there and you can damn near touch water with your arm. 

Heard that mistake cost somewhere north of 100k for the labor, the fill which they had already used to grade other areas of the property and and the interest on the construction loan that was accruing.

60% is not the "norm"

The ambiguity is not whether the 2 points define a segment or a plane. Two points define a unique segment that can belong to an infinite number of planes. The third (non-collinear) point uniquely defines which plane the line segment is on.

The oldest steel is \~4,000 years old. What was more recently invented was cheap and reliable ways to make specific types of steel.

Correct. An equation. Something additional to the 2 points. Again though, in order to define the plane using ONLY points, we need 3.

Ita not that two points could both define a segment and a plane - its that there are infinite possible planes you could draw that go through two points. 

Imagine a plane going through those two points, you could imagine it spinning about the axis of that line segment while the two points are still on the plane.

A 3rd, non-collinear point will constrain the plane to just one possibility, so it is able to define a plane. It also defines a triangle, and that triangle will exist on that plane.

I don't think you know what 'positive' means.

I seriously get that mixup.

You get the same equation either way.

That is not two dots, that's one dot.

Mutilating an infant boy's genitals to avoid phimosis is like cutting of an infant girls breasts to avoid breast cancer.  I know it's a common reason cited and you're just relaying that.  It just drives me absolutely insane that people don't see how disgusting of a reason that is.

I'm a guy, it's circumcised. I have a son, my partner and I chose not too with him. Both her and I view it as genital mutilation. A LARGE reason its so prevalent in the US is John Kellogg, yes, the cereal guy. He pushed it as a way to stop men from masturbating and even pushed for it to be done without any sort of anesthetic so as to cause pain to the baby so they wouldn't masturbate when older. It's actually really fucked up, I feel like a conspiracy nut just typing this but it's all real. So I don't recommend it, the hospital staff where he was born were all for not doing it one even said "he'll thank you later". Then we had friends have their son 1 month later. There were complications and they had to go back and do it again/clean it up.

The phimosis point is moot because if you ever develop it, they’ll circumcise you later if it’s necessary. 

As a person who was circumcised as an adult, let me tell you, it SUCKS. I would much rather have had it done when I wasn't forming memories and still growing. Unfortunately my mother didn't have a crystal ball to know it would save me a lot of agony as an adult.

I'll add in my 0.02... I've seen one done in lerson and the baby was asleep and peaceful the entire time, it took 3 minutes and the kiddo didn't even cry. And yet!

We still didn't circumcize our son because we care about his bodily autonomy regardless of how painful or not the procedure is!! Thankfully our hospital wasn't pushy but we have no regrets about not doing it.

This. This is important. 

We should fix it. We should have never allowed the system to go in place, like a huge part of the world. 

That being said, as much as fixing the system would benefit most Americans, the people who would suffer the most are actually the people who are directly affected by it.

  
According to  the average tip per hour is roughly 21.63 dollars. Once you add the minimum to the wage, your looking at 23-24$ average.  And keep in mind, thats the average. That means there are several servers earning more than that per hour. I know several people who bragged about getting about 500$ a night.

  
If we patched this, wages for servers on average would go lower, as \*Most\* family restaurants would adjust to a median, likely paying servers 15-18 dollars and raise prices to compensate.

Most big chains would do the same, but prob put wages of servers down to 12-14$ an hour and do a much bigger price increase to food.

  
Its kind of one of those problems that everyone has to wonder if its too late to fix. **Personally**, I think we NEED to do it, but its important to acknowledge that if we do it there are going to be alot of people who get screwed over and it will devastate the workforce in the food industry. Servers will quit because they are getting paid less than what they are used to and cant afford their current lifestyle, go look for another server job cause that's what they were good at and have experience in, and then turn down alot of opportunities because most restaurants are not willing to pay what they were getting tipped in wages.

  

Its the same thing with Healthcare Benefits Managers who talk to hospitals and doctors/specialists and negotiate pricing for different insurance companies instead of offices having a flat rate of what they bill.  

We should have never allowed it, and its probably better if we rip the bandaid off now for the benefit of the future, but if we do outlaw variable pricing for hospitals/doctor offices we need to acknowledge that .5-3% of the workforce in the US is likely going to get laid off. I have a very small group of people I know (under 70 people), and I know off the top of my head at least 3 would instantly loose their jobs. 

  
**.5% would be 850,000 workers**

Corridor Digital’s second channel has them reviewing CGI/animation/etc., and sometimes they have the head honchos of these VFX companies on to discuss all this stuff, and sometimes they bring breakdowns of the effects.   
  
For large blockbuster stuff, it’s truly insane (like the people making the software, not using it, need to have doctorates in math/physics/etc.)  
  
Here’s their videos with the guys who worked on Avatar (well, they have more, but these is the more technical videos):  
  
*   
*

You are aware that circumcision is like, super unpopular among younger people right, the percentage of people getting circumcised has been rapidly dropping over the past 10 years

... like all the humans here...

And it goes from mildly uncomfortable to "holy shit I have to do something about this right now" in an unbelievably short time.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Rule 7 states that users must search the sub before posting to avoid repeat posts within a year period. If your post was removed for a rule 7 violation, it indicates that the topic has been asked and answered on the sub within a short time span. Please search the sub before appealing the post. 

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

Ive never had my penis called beautiful but its definitely been called pretty on more than one occasion. I dont know how I feel about that. Circumcised btw.

A triangle is just a cut out of a plane. If you extend the triangle outwards, you get the same plane those three points describe.

Its the same idea as a line segment versus a line. Any two points define a line segment, and, if you extend that segment out to infinity, you get a line.

The same logic ends up expanding to additional dimensions. The most basic shape of the dimension always requires exactly one more point than the dimension number to define. That basic shape can then be expanded to infinity to produce another basic shape.

Any fewer points than that and you end up with an infinite many possible shapes being defined. With only two points defining a plane, you can rotate that plane in a third dimension, much like opening a door that is hung on two hinges.

I’m going to assume you’ve never seen a circumcision.

How about living in reality.

I want you to explain exactly how removing someone’s foreskin (an external feature) impacts prostate cancer (an internal feature) when the two features are not remotely connected

That’s like someone claiming removing your tonsils reduces stomach cancer

As a circumcized man, I have no idea why there is such a strong consensus in these comments.

I have never thought twice about it and the idea of it being more sensitive sounds awful.

Like is it weird that we have cutting off a piece of our selves as a form of care? Yeah. But I would not ask for it back ever.

Uh huh, or I just didn’t see it? Also it’s a child to the comment I linked.

Not trying to be dismissive, but have you worked in the industry? It's not all of them, but restaurant owners are some of the cheapest and unethical people I've met. From withholding or straight up stealing tips, to retaliation (usually by cutting hours) for employees who try to claim wages. I don't know anyone in the industry who has ever been given their legally mandated break, either. Wage theft outnumbers all other criminal theft by almost 50 to 1.

That's just the financial side. The amount of abuse (psychological, physical, and sexual) is so normalized that the industry as a whole likes to turn a blind eye, until they're caught.

Bruh, I didn’t ask how complex or long it takes, more like how those tens of thousands of processors track dark matter particles and the way they interact

I think it’s a good idea to minimize parental decisions that irreversibly change the body of a child when there are no health reasons to do so.

It is not automatic, you are asked and it needs to be scheduled. My husband wanted our son to have the procedure done. I didn't. So I said alright, you schedule it then. It was not scheduled. My husbands laziness wins most of the time and I know this bc I am the same.

I feel (as a European in New Zealand) from reading comments on this topic over the years plus that horrendous Sex in the City episode that Americans kinda think that an uncircumcised but erect penis looks different that a circumcised one. It doesn't so all the comments about sexual preference and looks etc sound like Americans are out there poking flacid penis's around as some sort of awkward foreplay.

Tldr: when hard and during sex uncircumcised penis's look and feel (to the woman, not the man) the same as circumcised.

I’m Canadian but I chose not to circumcise my son. There was no medical reason to do so. I got asked twice by the doctor (I think he forgot he had already asked), but it was a quick question without any pushback.

Something else I haven’t seen mentioned yet: circumcision has become MUCH less popular in the US than it used to be. When our grandparents were making that decision, the vast majority of people opted for circumcision. Nowadays just under 50% of baby boys born in the US get circumcised. I expect that trend to continue and for it to become less prevalent. 

It also varies a lot by race. Circumcision is very common for the black population, whereas only ~20% of Hispanics choose circumcision. Whites are around 60%. And it varies by location. More common in the Midwest and north east, less common out west.

Scar tissue and removed nerve endings.

TL;DR: Tipping isn't a bonus, it's a custom to make sure the service staff gets paid.

In America, most jobs have a minimum wage. The government has a minimum. States can have it higher. Federally it's $7.25/hr. Here in California, it's $16.90. 

In some states, food service jobs like waiting tables have a "tipped base wage," meaning you need to be making at least the minimum wage after tips. So you can earn like $2.13/hour in Texas, Ohio, Georgia, etc. but ultimately up to $7.25/hr. So, if nobody tips, your wage for the day really sucks.

Quick math here. Cost of living in Texas is about $53,000 annually. 52 weeks a year. At Texas minimum wage you'd have to work 140 hours/week to get to average. And that's not really much to support a family. In LA, low wage is considered $80,000 annually. At minimum wage, that's 91 hours a week. And most employers won't hire you past 40 hours because that's overtime pay. It's just not doable or sustainable for any form of living without tips.

So if you don't tip, these people don't really get much of a wage.

So in America, it's not saying, "well, I really liked my waiter's great service. I'm going to go out of my way and give them a true bonus." You kind of have to. It's all a math game to make it feel like the meal was cheaper then it was. And afterward is deciding how destitute you're going to leave the service staff.

Some people like having this system because they can make a lot more in tips just because people might tip a lot. Others just want the world to exist in a way where working hard gets you a predictable income and a decent life. And with the razor-thin profit margins of the restaurant industry here, that's hard.

With drivers, it's kind of the same. Most people use Uber. Most of the Uber drivers might make $15-$25 an hour according to the AI. That's before expenses. Gas is expensive. Car maintenance is expensive. Insurance is expensive. If here in LA, low wage and a decent life is $40/hr, 40 hrs/week, 50 weeks/year, then you can tell these guys have no chance whatesoever without tips. Otherwise it's just barely scraping by.

-there are some studies that indicate it might help prevent spread of some STIs and HPV. Conflicting studies on both sides.

I can't speak to all studies but as a South African I know that there were some studies conducted in Africa which indicated that circumcised men were less likely to contract AIDS. Of course, they didn't control for other factors such as that circumcised men in Africa are overwhelmingly Muslim and monogamous while uncircumcised men are neither - and in fact, tend to be quite promiscuous. So it turns out that the studies were flawed and circumcision has not been shown (absent other factors) to prevent STDs.

Depends on who you ask. Waiters at higher-end restaurants would prefer tip pay vs hourly wages. So it’s typically both the industry and employees’ fault.

Right?! Spent several days camping without opportunity for a shower and it was very uncomfortable. The need to clean it was not ignorable!

I'm circumsized. My son is circumsized. My wife had the hospital do it to him against my wishes. She believed the old tales that it's cleaner. I consider it unnecessary mutilation and resent the practice. 

It's been deeply associated here with Christianity for a very long time. As a pastor, I find that association to be completely non-sensical. Its, at best, a tangential attempt to appear more closely related to Judaism.

This literally happens. All the "roast beef" memes? I've read so many accounts from young women who have been told by guys that long labia equals "worn out". 

It's not uncommon for people who are not used to seeing something to think it's "weird". Better sex education on different bodies would help a lot.

You get video call echoes when there is more than one laptop in hearing range of eachother. Its own echo a single laptop filters out just the same. But if there are multiple, its not so easy anymore to figure out which waveform is from which, because they are all delayed to eachother. 343Hz signal is already one full phase out of sync coming from another source 1m apart.

I'm a circumcised American guy who doesn't think it's a big deal and will likely circumcise his son. My buddy wasn't circumcised until 18 and he claims he vastly prefers being circumcised over being uncircumcised. My partner is a doctor and has seen many instances of people with issues from not cleaning properly, as well as people sustaining injuries from the hood being retracted too quickly/improperly. 

No judgement however a person has it/prefers it, I honestly don't think it matters all that much, but I'll never understand Reddits weird crusade against circumcision.

I am a circumcised male physician and did not circumcise our boy. I personally do not believe you should do a cosmetic procedure on a baby without consent. There are multiple ways do it as well. Some ways (the plastibell) are straight up inhumane. The put a little plastic bell over the glans (tip of penis), pull the foreskin over it and tie a string about it. The skin necroses and falls off. All without sedation or local anesthetic. Show me a grown man that would consent to that. It’s insane.

It's interesting how different certain hospitals are. Where my son was born they asked "are you going with circumcision?" we said no, they said "ok". the pediatrician confirmed a little later "you said no for circumcision, right? just confirming they heard you correctly. ok cool." and then it was never discussed again.

I got asked multiple times at the hospital. I knew I was having a girl. But apparently just in case it turned out to actually be a boy, they were asking...

That's weird. I'm circumcised and yet have never had a problem. I would guess it's not that big a role.

You are acting like they dont numb it rofl.

Maybe it’s a Hispanic thing then and I mixed it up.

And this guy

Saying literally the exact opposite but you won’t link him lol

It’s not bullshit, but that also doesn’t mean that circumcision is medically necessary.

What the fuck are you talking about

Phimosis is surely the answer (my friend case) but other than that (my personal problem) is a short frenulum, basically the thing that connects the head of the penis with an outer skin. I’ve got my frenulum torn (because of not enough “natural” lubricant and I was surely not familiar that “natural” women lubricants are not always enough, which is totally normal though) when I was young and not so familiar with the sex process (yes, I’ve been sexing), so I had some hard times with sex because after the first frenulum rupture I had scar tissue formed and the ruptures in frenulum during sex became a usual thing, which I assure you is not a pleasant thing at all.

I’ve never got circumcised though because of various reasons and now I have a happy sexual life with my wife (with a lot of lubricant of course) but I’m surely understand the reason to be circumcised as an adult.

PS. I apologize in advance, English is not my native language, but I hope you had some answers

What do I gain lying about this....

Complications are just as common as phimosis. Since avoiding phimosis is the only medical benefit from a circumcision, it doesn't reach the threshold applied in modern medicine to justify new procedures.

Bet you won’t get as many upvotes though

Just additional food for thought: I find the practice of circumcision to be anti-feminist. That may sound counter intuitive, but hear me out. My body made my son exactly the way he was supposed to be. There's no reason a piece of him needs to be cut off, because he was designed to be that way. I made him just right.

When I had my son, my husband and I had agreed to not have him circumcised. When they brought the consent form to my room after he was born, I tore it up.

I was keeping him in the room with me. I would wake up to find one nurse or another wheeling him out. I'd ask where and why they were taking him.

"The doctor is here for his circumcision."

"He's not going to be circumcised."

"But you signed the consent form."

"I did not."

"He wouldn't be on the list without your signature."

"Then bring me the form. And even if I had, I can revoke that consent at any time. He is not being circumcised. Give him back to me now."

They also INSISTED on doing bloodwork to "make sure he's processing (whatever milk enzyme) properly." Thing was, I was breastfeeding. He hadn't HAD any milk, only colostrum, and colostrum doesn't have that enzyme.

Worst part? I worked at that hospital at the time. I actually got in trouble for "not cooperating with nursing staff."

It’s not automatic and they seek consent beforehand. I was asked by my care provider what I wanted and then she asked me again when prepping for the c-section just to confirm (because she would be performing the procedure had I consented to it). It was all very matter of fact and it was asked in a nonchalant and expressionless manner. There was never any pressure one way or the other at any step of the way for me, (located in New England).

They’ve literally done studies comparing men who got uncircumcised as an adult and had them rate sensitivity before and after. 

Most studies show no change.

Some studies actually show MORE sensitivity.

So your personal anecdote is not representative of the general population and we have data proving that. That’s why we look at data and not anecdotes

I agree with you but I suspect those who wish to do it for actual religious reasons would create a mighty fuss. In that sense I’m not sure if anyone who’d have the power to change this, would be willing to, as sad as that is.

You had me at smooth balls.

True, but it's also a much bigger procedure later in life. Our son isn't circumcised for what it's worth.

No, they said to choose the plane perpendicular to the line between the points (or at least meant to when they said "perpendicular to the points").

So I'm your example, after putting the two points on the floor, the defined plane is _a wall_ standing up out of the midpoint. And the rotation of that wall is specifically the one so that the line through the points is perpendicular to it (instead of "slanted").

Not my job to pay the sever. I’ll go even or order a pizza even if I can’t tip

Why did it take so long to invent steel? I feel like having carbon impurities would be inevitable in ancient foundry tech. If anything, I would have thought it would be more difficult to produce pure iron.

I’m in the Chicago area. Here it is very, very common. My husband and I have 2 boys. We decided not to do circumcision because we couldn’t think of a reason to do it. 

We’re both atheists and not Jewish. We talked to our European male friends who are not as well and after some answers regarding health, ultimately made the decision not to do it. 

My family was weirdly not as supportive about it as I would have liked. But many of our friends also made the choice not to do it for their sons.

It can depend a lot where you live in the country. It’s less common on the west coast where I live as far as I can tell. There was no assumption my son would be circumcised when he was born five years ago.

Yeah but the  convenience ain't bad. For this aging penis owner.

You've never had that conversation with anyone. Stop making stuff up.

Basically, as always, carbon is a whore… right?

Anyone who deals with this should start asking the nurses "if it was a girl, would you be asking to circumcise her clitoris? no? ok then stop fucking asking."

Some percentage of men don't have a fully retracted foreskin. It hurts for some of those.

Absolutely, but those 2 points don’t define the plane. The equation that includes those 2 points can define the plane, but to define the plane using only points, we need 3. That equation can solve for any 3 points which will then define the plane with a minimum of 3 points

Yeah I'm not pro-circumcision, but this argument is a bad one. The brain is way, way more plastic in early development. If neurons aren't being used, they're going to get recruited elsewhere very quickly. This slows down a lot as we age. Someone circumcized at birth is going to have a significantly different experience than someone circumcized as an adult.

These days they don't even ask (probably depends on the state). You have to do it with your pediatrician a month or so later and pay like $50-100 for it.

Why are you glad about it?

Sure. I’ll use the proper terminology. vulva.

Please women. Wash your vulva.

Guys. Wash your glans!

Are we all happy now?

How do you circumcise a whale...well, first you get fore skindivers...

ETA: I'm drunk af and can't figure out how to edit..... Also I'm drunk af and might have the math wrong.

Oh yeah I'm not blaming your dad, he is under contract.  I'm saying that no matter how much they're paying him, it likely isn't going to feel worth it to him because he has to operate on a baby's penis which is a risk for no real benefit.

My understanding - and it may well be apocryphal so take it as you will; is that similar to your comment, it is related to the clock face and is French in origin. So quinze, trente, quarante (rather than quarante-cinq which would be 45). As a bonus, ‘love’ for zero originated from l’œuf (‘the egg’) resembling, well, an egg. Which incidentally has a similar connotation in cricket, with being out for a duck (egg).

Bonus bonus point, quarante is the origin root of quarantine, which required ships to remain in harbor for 40 days before docking. Allegedly.

DO NOT Tell him to manually pulled it back. There is no reason to do so.  The foreskin will eventually separate from the head naturally.  Doing it forcefully will hurt and can cause infection.  Because circumcision is so common in the US, many doctors don't even know this.  I encourage you to edit your and comment and remove that part out

Alas, credit goes to Karl Schroeder for that one.

Just like how tipped workers are supposed to report every dollar for taxes. Neither of those happen unless forced to.

My 95 year old dad had it done last month after a UTI turned to sepsis and nearly killed him.

Your submission has been removed because questions that ask "what if...." and "what would happen if..." are rarely concepts. Typically these questions are speculative, and better suited for r/whatif, r/nostupidquestions, or /r/answers. 

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yeah, in Ontario Canada they make same minimum wage as everyone else, $17.60 and everyone still tips.

Yeah I don’t cut my arms off cos my armpits might need a wash!

Your submission has been removed because it concerns, or has been prompted by, a recent or current event. Recent events are a topic not covered in ELI5 under Rule 2.  However, we have established a megathread for current events which can be found pinned to the top of the sub, sort posts by "Hot" if your reddit version cannot see the pinned posts otherwise. You could also consider trying a sub such as /r/news, /r/worldnews, /r/OutOfTheLoop, or /r/NoStupidQuestions. Please make sure to read their rules and their current megathreads (if related).

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission. Note that **if you do not fill out the form completely**, your message **will not be reviewed**.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Your phone has a complicated battery management system (BMS) chip on it. It doesn't directly connect your USB to the battery, it uses little transformer circuits called charge pumps, which are constantly managed by the BMS.

There is an algorithm for each battery chemistry that tells the BMS exactly what voltage or current to command the charge pumps to output for a given state of charge (SoC), cell voltage, temperature, or other parameters (how old is the battery, what does the upstream charger allow, is the user scheduled to wake up at 8 AM so I can defer charging until then?)

When your battery is 100% SoC, a few things can happen (depending on this algorithm).

1. The charge pumps continue to operate the phone directly. Charge pumps are essentially voltage regulators, and can supply the device just fine, provided the upstream charger is powerful enough. The battery is essentially soft-disconnected using a MOSFET, but can be rapidly reconnected when the charger is disconnected, or there is a sudden demand spike that the charger needs time to adjust to. Batteries act as shock absorbers in this case, as they can rapidly sustain a sudden load.
2. The battery might be kept in-line and allowed to drain slightly. This protects the battery chemistry because it shouldn't be subject to constant voltage (CV) charging all the time (unlike a lead acid battery).
3. The battery gets topped off using CV mode after being drained a bit.

They don't do surgery on newborns for this..they snap a clamp around it snd it falls off in a week like a skin tag

If he gets enough tips he can sew them together to make a wallet that turns into a suit case if he rubs it. I hope this helps.

That was intentional. And I need to give credit where credit is due: That’s stolen from Ian Bagg: 

He just does crowd work so every show is different. Fucking hilarious because there are zero fucks given.

Look him up on YouTube.

No affiliation other than being Canadian. 😂😎

Maybe you look Jewish?

Yeah you're still making stuff up. No trauma.

Vocal sound waves are predictable.

Background noise is erratic.

If you take one wave and match it with an equal but opposite wave (sine where period is offset by 1/2 sine), the wave cancels out to a line.

Noise cancellation let's predictable waves through and cancels out erratic waves.

the phone has multiple microphones so it knows what is coming from the speaker and what is coming from surroundings. It can use the other waveforms to cancel out sounds from the primary waveform.

Exactly, not tipping should be normalized

As a circumcised male I’m glad my mom circumcised me. I’m sure I’ll get downvoted for saying that though. It’s a completely safe procedure with no downsides and Reddit gets way too fucking weird about other peoples bodies

Those must be tiny tips

You use ask for it to be done. And just to be safe, ask the doctor and make sure it is NOT done.

It’s a byproduct of the same process that generates heat. Remember that in order to make those atoms jiggle, you need to apply energy to matter. When that happens, the electrons get excited. Excite them enough, and they fly off the atom. But usually they just get excited a little. Then they go back to normal. When they do that, they let off the extra energy in the form of light, or other electromagnetic emissions.

I completely agree. I am totally against circumcision! But my dad is a doctor - It is a medical procedure he’s required to perform if the parents choose to have It done. (He never pushes for It tho, he too thinks they’re barbaric. Nevermind how it’s a waste of his time financially lol)

Slightly dated material from 2008, but the CDC findings after numerous studies indicate a reduction in relative risk of contracting HIV at approximately 44-71% for circumcised males. 

There are other sources that indicate an even greater reduction, but I am unsure of how solid their sources are.

say hello to the golden city SF lol

There’s lasting physical trauma from unnecessary mutilation.

In an infant the foreskin is fused to the glands of the penise exactly like your fingernail is fused to your finger.  Imagine someone strapping you to an bed so you can't move and then ripping each of your fingernails off.  Now imagine you're a brand new infant who has no pain tolerance and no idea why this is happening.  Now picture this wound healing in a diaper with piss and shit in it.  

Babies die.  Babies are left disfigured for life.  Baby's cry until they can't.  Many pass out from the pain.  All of them go into shock.  

Removing the foreskin removes the most sensitive part of a male body and reduces sexual pleasure.  Exposing the glands to constant friction further reduces sexual pleasure.  Not having a foreskin removes the lubrication effect meaning sex is less comfortable for both him and his partner.  

It's a barbaric and horrendous practice.  Please don't subject your infant to that trauma.

You FaceTime friend. 
You is Sound A. Friend is Sound B.

Phone speaker produce sound B.
Phone microphone detects Sound B and Sound A. 
Phone knows Sound B is from phone’s speaker. 
Phone now delete Sound B and only outputs Sound A. 

Now friend only hears Sound A. 
Friend now happy. You now happy.

It sounds like it’s different for everyone. For me being a hetero woman, I can assure you there’s a difference in sensitivity for us, as well, between the two.

With my 2 boys, the nurses and doctor seemed relieved that we decided to opt out of the procedure. It just seemed completely unnecessary.

There is some scientific basis to circumcision. It reduces the susceptibility to some STDs, meaningfully but slightly. It’s a question for the parents whether they think the risk of complications, also meaningful but slight, is worth the benefits.

If you mean the sound they're playing out of their speakers, they know what sound waves they're playing (they have to in order to play them), and so can subtract that waveform from whatever waves are coming in through the microphone. 

Because sound waves can be added and subtracted. 

I don't know why other systems don't (like when someone joins a video-call with their laptop speakers and mic and you get echoes). My hunch would be that either the laptop is doing more in the background so there's a delay, or else they just didn't program the software to do that, but that part's just a guess.

They don't get paid properly by their employer because they are expected to make most of their money via tips. Thus they require tips in order to afford to live, and not tipping is actually very rude.

The practice itself is a weird cultural holdover from the early 20th century. Ironically before then it was considered very un-American - an aristocratic practice from the colonial era that equals (as in "all men are created equal") should not tolerate - but over the decades it's become part of the whole puritanical "hard work purifies the soul" "survival of the fittest" "grindset" mentality, and now few people there want to change it.

It seems strange to those of us from places without tipping or where tipping is a genuine reward for unexpectedly good service, but that's just how it is in America. Just like every other odd cultural taboo around the world, if you are uncomfortable with it then suck it up, or don't go.

No assumption needed, both yall need to knowbhow to park on a hill even if you don't want to.

I’m confused. It’s an argument against sleeping with single moms? Single moms have visible labia? Or they don’t?

Thank you! Just the outer bits. I’m not sticking a bottle brush in there. It would be the equivalent of the foreskin.

Holy shit!

I also clean my butt hole…. But I don’t clean the inside! Just the outer bits! I hope everyone practices this.

Because genital mutilation shouldn't be acceptable but I clarified babies not children.

It's part of the non spoken social contract. When you receive a typically tipped service in America, you have tacitly agreed to tip. If you don't. You've violated the unspoken, cultural accepted agreement. You've failed up pay what you agreed to pay.

jobs offer wages too low to support a person. the workers hold out for jobs that they can actually live on. jobs won't raise wages, workers can't take jobs that don't pay the bills and keep them fed and housed. as a result, jobs go unfilled and workers go un-employed. that, plus too many people unwilling or unable to take the "bad" jobs (cleaning, field work, childcare, food service, retail, etc) or too qualified in the wrong fields.

Also, the foreskin has a lot of nerve endings which plays a big role in both stimulation and protection of the penis.

You don’t need to be circumcised unless you have phimosis.

In most cases, it's not "determined", except by the person or organization selling it.

There's a (likely apocryphal) story about Kruschev visting the US, being impressed at the absence of bread  lines, and asking to meet the man responsible for the distribution of bread in New York City.  The joke, of course, is that there is no such person, that distribution is handled by thousands of businesses, from largr grocery stores to small corner stores, each of which operates completely independently, and which nonethless manage to maintain a function food system throughout the entire country.

Similarly, the price of any given item is determined by the shopkeeper (in the case of small businesses) or by corporate departments (in the case of grocery chains). In both cases, they make the determination based on what they think will make them money, which means they have to look at their costs, what their competitors are charging, and how in demand a given item is.

In general, the bigger entities have a lower cost per unit, and they have more elaborate market research for what they think is the optimal price. They'll raise it as high as they can before it starts costing them money (by costing them sales).

In a truly efficient market, competition would drive down the cost of everything to the cost of providing it (including all overhead and operating costs), plus some reasonable profit margin that would entice people to keep running stores. In reality, of course, it's a lot morr complicated than that.

Interestingly my mother had worked as a nurse in a hospital and seen men that HAD to be circumsized later in life and that was why she said “go and do it” when I was a newborn.

I always thought it was weird. Hey can I cut part of your dick off?
What. 
Wait. 
WHAT?! 

Noooo... it's cool you are just a baby. 

Also. Fun fact, until the 80's they thought babies don't feel pain so they would just go ahead and do surgery on them without anasctestia. 

It's FINE. We promise.

how about a 50% lower risk of prostate cancer?

Sure.

But not everyone has that luxury. Living off of tips, a preciarious way to live, is still better than being without food or shelter. 

Also, people shouldn't frequent to places that don't pay a living wage. But typically it's people who never had to live off of poverty wages and have money to burn on eating at a restaurant. 

It's labor laws that need to change, as a start, but much more than just that. Putting people into situations to be desperate and submissive to employers is one of the core functions of US society, to create that pool of cheap labor to use and abuse.

I believe circumcision can be detrimental to a man’s sex life because of a lower sensitivity to them and pleasure for a woman partner. It is painful for baby after anesthesia wears off (obviously). You do not need to have the procedure done for medical reasons but it’s important that you teach good hygiene if you do not have it done.

I think you may be right.  Good catch.

When I had to make the choice for my infant son, I was a bit conflicted about it because it’s quite painful to do later and ridiculous to undo later… I (male) have always thought a circumcised penis is more aesthetically pleasing, and the hygiene is arguably better, but there are lots of people who would disagree and I don’t think they’re wrong. Just my opinion, and we decided to do it. 1999 if that makes a difference 🤷🏾‍♀️

The concept is correct. The problem I have with it is that this is an equation that you can use to solve for the points that will define the plane, but the other 2 points are just constants in that equation. Yes they are part of the definition in this case, but you now also need the equation which is still more than just 2 points. In order to define a plane using only points, we need 3

Googling the question I got a "featured snippet" (not the AI summary) with the clockface theory from the BBC. Actually asking an AI, the literal first thing it said was that "nobody knows for certain", then it lists some theories.

The make an extra $7-9k off your insurance.  Totally self serving mutilation of your baby.

Unless theres a medical reason, I feel its only done because the kids father had it done and so they just continue doing it because they think its necessary because it was done to them. Its not.

They did for mine in 2021! Nurse said “he’ll get his circumcision today” and I had to answer “no he absolutely will not be.” So it’s definitely still out there.

I'm genuinely convinced the anti-circumcision movement online started as an alt-right thing and then spread, and most of the people who are now sucked into it don't even realize it. Reddit and social media have been an incredible boon to people looking to normalize fringe ideas, whether it's the harm of seed oils, the "evils of circumcision", the greatness of North Korea... whatever.

And unless it's considered necessary (like your baby has phimosis), it's not covered by Health Canada anymore.

I haven't read through the whole thing yet, but it was published in 2012 and a majority of its citations are over 20 years old - many are over 30 years old.

I gotta believe this topic has been revisited more recently?

I'm circumcised. They fucked up. I can only feel good sensations on about 1/4 of my glans. To make a BJ good, my partner basically has to be upsidedown to hit the only spot.

My 2 boys aren't circumcised. There's 0 medical reasons. If someone tells you there are, they're either lying because of religion or they're bad at math.

You can sew them together. Makes for interesting wallet. Rub it and it turns into a suitcase.

There are occasionally medical reasons for it. My son had some extra “webbing” from his scrotum to his foreskin that, if left uncircumcised” might have implicated his growth. 
I was on the fence about circumcising him - on the one hand, it seems like a weird usually unnecessary procedure rooted in religion, which I oppose.  On the other, no kid likes to be the “weird” one when compared to all their friends.  But then his medical condition made the decision for me.

The same way your jacket keeps you warm. You'd be much warmer if your hands and head were covered too, but the jacket helps even if your hands and head are still bare.

I can tell you're not American because a) you call it a handbrake instead of a parking brake and b) you actually use said brake ever. It might as well be decoration to most Americans.

I went through the first process you describe. It was fine, no big deal.

"Each to their own" nah fuck that, stop mutilating babies genitals, it's fucking weird.

Framing it as a balance of risks vs rewards is the problem. The risks of complications is not the reason to avoid it. Even when the surgery heals perfectly, every circumcision results in the permanent loss of the prepuce, which is a major injury. The U.S. medical establishment has a huge blindspot that is obvious to anyone from a place where genital cutting isn't routine.

Wow that is much different than my son's circumcision 20 years ago. They put numbing cream on the area under plastic for 30 minutes. When they started they gave him a pacifier with sugar water in it. He seemed to sleep through the entire process. He never seemed to notice the little bandage on the end of his penis that fell off a few days later. He never had this screaming.

One at a time and in discrete steps. How did you think they do it

Yeah I don't care how much you are getting paid. I feel like it's always going to be too little money for taking a knife to a baby's penis. But that might just be my personal perspective.

A lot of times when a repo is involved that isn't material since the person who lost the property was insolvent anyway

Depends where you are, much less common in many states e.g. West coast.

It is no longer something most people do, thank goodness. Circumcision is now below 50% and I wouldnt be surprised if it keeps rapidly dropping now that "it's what most people do" isnt an excuse anymore.

Are you saying that they cut it in half?

Yeah, but that TruCoat...

Why are you asking new parents such invasive questions about their children's genitals?

I don't follow your logic. Please explain

why don't poor people just buy more money

As someone who had to watch the procedure done several times - there is no anesthetic. None. Sugar water on a pacifier while the baby is strapped to a plastic board.

I think any parent who wants their son to be circumcised should have to watch it happen.

Think of it like this, would you cut off your daughter's clit and labia? Circumcision is just about the same thing just the male version. 

Yes, we can live without foreskin, and yes sex still can feel good, but there's rarely a reason to do it normally at birth.

I'm an uncircumcised guy. I would recommend against circumcision. There's no medical reason to do it, the reason is usually religious or cultural. Any perceived "sanitation" benefit is very minimal.

Well, circumcision is a form of genital mutilation, with no real health or hygiene benefits whatsoever, and is entirely a religious and cultural practice. I don't know about you, but I am not into mutilating my son's genital at birth. If he wants to do it later in his life, that's his choice.

I'm in the somewhat unusual position where I had to have it done as an adult for medical reasons. It was not a big deal for me personally, no issues afterwards, and I have the benefit of being able to compare. That said, I can't imagine doing it randomly for no reason.

My parents are atheist and circumcised their children… but let’s subject our children to general anesthesia, a more invasive/complicated surgery, a hospital stay and a multi week long recover that they will very much be aware of instead of a quick snip that’ll they’ll never remember. But to each their own.

What could this possibly mean

You have to separately consent to surgical procedures. It may be included among the other forms you sign, but it absolutely is something that you have to separately consent too. As a surgeon, I know how surgical consent works.

Is a cosmetic procedure. How do you want your sons genitals to look?

Some hospitals will try to pressure you into it. Be very clear with them.

UTIs and STIs can be avoided with hygiene and contraceptives if you have occasional partners, penile cancer it's also linked to poor hygiene (due to chronic inflammation)

So as long as you pull it back in the shower and give it a good rinse there's no real drawback to having the foreskin, the main issue with foreskin is phimosis/para-phimosis but you can always stretch/apply steroid creams or go circumcised later in life if the need arises

Piercing a girl’s ears is not a Catholic religious practice.

Great line! Bravo if that was straight off the top of your dome.

I've seen 2 circumcised penises. They're weird and don't move right.

Just know that when the boy grows to be an old man and his penis atrophies, it could make it extremely difficult to keep clean if he ends up needing healthcare..

But that IS what theyre supposed to look like.

Because the phone is aware of the waveform of the audio it’s producing. So when it hears that same waveform coming back in via the microphone, it knows to cancel them out. It processes this extremely quickly using math.

As an uncircumcised guy that was sexually acting very early, young women can definitely be cruel about it but women always prefer it because there's less friction

I highly recommend the book *Exactly* by Simon Winchester, for more on this and a bunch of other things that are fascinating in a similar way.

They're saying let plane P(a, b) = { p | d(p, a) = d(p, b) }.

The "collection of all points **that** ..." is the set _being defined_ not party of the inputs to the definition. P(a, b) is fully defined by a and b, two points.

This different than the typical definition of a plane in geometry, but is a perfectly valid definition.

I’ve had nothing but positive feedback from my partners over the years and I’m uncut. Nobody has told me it’s weird. I’ve had 11 sexual partners and take everything with a big pinch of salt because people lie, ESPECIALLY to their sexual partners when it comes to matters of sexual gratification—but I’ve been told it feels better for them, unprompted, by 6 partners of those partners.

Didn’t circumcise my son as I’m obviously very against the practice.

As far as ones done in a hospital by a doctor, complications are very rare these days.

I’m uncircumcised and SO glad. Let him decide for himself rather than permanently remove the option just because in the US it’s a common procedure. That’s a lame reason.

I’m not arguing in favor of circumcision, but there’s a big difference between saying women find circumcised penises beautiful and saying women are less attracted to uncircumcised penises. Not saying what I think is true here either, I just thought it was odd how you re-framed your son’s argument

Technically the restaurant IS required by law to pay minimum wage. They just never have to, because tipped employees almost always make more than minimum wage after tips.

Yes, but minimum wage is $7.25

"There is no medical reason to do so"   

This is objectively false. 

For example, 

In 2012, public health researchers at Johns Hopkins University tallied the national costs of falling circumcision rates in the United States.

“If U.S. male circumcision rates among men born in the same year dropped to European rates (~10%), there would be an expected 12 percent increase in men infected with HIV (or 4,843); 29 percent more men infected with human papillomavirus (57,124); a 19 percent increase in men infected with herpes simplex virus (124,767); and a 211 percent jump in the number of infant male urinary tract infections (26,876). Among their female sex partners, there would be 50 percent more cases each of bacterial vaginosis (538,865) and trichomoniasis (64,585). The number of new infections with the high-risk form of human papillomavirus, which is closely linked to cervical cancer in women, would increase by 18 percent (33,148 more infections).”

I wasn't sure if non-Commonwealth people would get that.

Drainage in natural souls is typically a lot better than home pots. The water will drain down into the water table and away, with the speed depending on the soil type (sand drains quickly, clay might not absorb it at all, various degrees between it). Whatever plants grow in it are those that can deal with the soil type and how fast it drains. 

At home, your pot has a bottom so extra water just sit. You can do something similar though with some rocks at the bottom of the pot and making sure it has drain holes (and you don't flood the tray) plus a fast draining soil type. Needs to be adapted for the plant you want though - some like to be wet, some will get mold at the drop of a hat.

I have complaints about your penis.

Some folks out here just trying to survive.

I am also ‘cised and wish my parents hadn’t. 

My dad is actually not and his reasoning was because he is susceptible to UTIs (even though he is a very clean person.) My mother is very prone to UTIs as well and kidney infection, so I think they did it to minimize my risk of infection since they are used to getting them.

Thankfully I have only dealt with UTIs a couple of times in my life, but I am not sure a lack of foreskin has accounted for it all that much, maybe it has. 

I do think there is something to be said about pain that the body faces in that it remembers. It may not be conscious to me as I know and live now…and humans, especially babies, are resilient as fuck but it makes me curious about just how internalized the pain a baby might go thru (like a circumcision) carries on or manifests through behavior and development of the child.

It took me all of a few minutes to teach my son how to keep it clean and why it’s important. And as an intact male I’m glad my mother chose not despite being common.

"Cold wants to fall" is part of why chest freezers are so great.

Clocks and timekeeping are tools humans invented to organize their lives

Clocks and timekeeping are tools humans invented to win wars. Strategic advantage of having more accurate maps. Can't do that without knowing how fast you're moving along the coastline you're trying to draw.

Organising daily life for civilians on land at a more granular scale than dawn-noon-dusk wasn't even a faint concept until the technology already existed for military purposes.

There's a huge list of technological developments over the history of civilisation that started military before being adopted in civilian life. Knowing what time it is feels strangest of these, because once it's part of normal life it feels so fundamental.

Correct, but keep in mind that the minimum wage in a lot of states is crap.  For example, NC  doesn't have a set minimum wage so it defaults to the federal minimum wage of $7.25.  I'd be surprised if you could find a normal job in NC that doesn't pay at least $11 an hour.

So yea you can not tip but the server gets paid crap then.

Meaning it tasted weird, too?

It’s simple really.
It’s an optional surgery that the hospital makes money off of
While they won’t force your boy to have one(which if they did you’d have a settlement on your hands) they will tend to ask once or twice depending on what state you’re in or that hospitals particular medical professionals.

As with all surgeries, there comes a risk. I’d personally say that it’s not worth taking a chance of having the surgery fail and possibly cause the passing of said child due to complications for a pointless cosmetic surgery.  

Let your child decide for themselves when they become an adult, but it’s your responsibility as a parent to guide them on how to care for their own body once they reach the age where they should start practicing personal hygiene.

I have two boys, declined on both. If they decide to do it, cool. Whatever.  Not making THAT choice for them.  No reason to besides.... tradition? IDK

In about 8 states restaurant servers get paid the "full" minimum wage. California, for example, requires restaurants to pay their servers $16.90USD/hr. But many other states they set  a minimum wage for servers that "assumes" a certain wage from tips that combined should bring the worker up to minimum wage, those are lower. And many other US states follow the federal Fair Labor Standards Act, again assuming tip wages will bring the full wage up to the state minimum. The FLSA minimum cash wage is $2.13/hr.   

So, essentially, Congress set up a system that obligates people to tip.

I missed the part where that's my issue?

Above what everyone else has said id recommend googling what the procedure looks like and determine if you want to put your son through that. Harvard or Stanford has a clinical video of the surgery being done and it’s not pretty. You just gave birth to this perfect kid and you want to start hacking away at him. We didn’t circumcise ours and are letting him decide for himself when he’s older.

Totally fair, it's not going to be common. I'm hyper conscious because as a young man it happened on my W126, my handbrake was weak, and it nearly rolled away on me as I was getting out.

The scoring actually works pretty well, if you have only a small advantage on winning points it translates to a very big advantage on the match. I think it was less than 55% edge to get >90% win chance but I don't remember.

The real question to me is why you get two serves. Even after you fault once, you're still heavily favoured to win the point. So you'd still much rather serve even if you didn't get a free fault. Why make serving so imbalanced?

It is not automatic but they will ask many times and be surprised when you say no. You should say no, its cosmetic surgery meant to reduce mastabation from the people that brought you Kellogs ceral (for the same reason) it doesnt do that.

That isn’t true. Lots of states have abolished the sub minimum wage and servers still routinely get 15-25%.

The sub minimum wage is a load of bull and it’s keeping people poor.

No, he doesn’t get paid by the hour he gets paid by the procedure. He always complains about how little he gets paid for circumcisions.

dude i’m not jumping in to either side of this, i’m just answering the question for someone

And how is that not functionally? Lol

What if your vehicle is too heavy for the tow truck to move?

There’s not NO medical reason to do so. There’s been significant scientific evidence for decades showing that it significantly reduces the likelihood of acquiring HIV from an infected sexual partner for example. Does this fully justify circumcision? Absolutely not. Just saying it’s wrong to state there’s zero medical purpose for it

Urologist here. 

Most of the "my body, my choice" circ warriors are women.

Which is interesting, because they are so passionate about the others sex's body, and what what they want done with it. But, they get irate when men tell them what to do with theirs. 

Slippery slope. 

Men don't care, and depending on their country of origin is dependent on whether circs are customary or not.

Inside to the power of inside

No. Not 'reconsidered'. Criminalised.

Your understanding is incorrect. The employer MUST pay at least minimum wage, inclusive of tips or otherwise. You’re just subsidizing the employer by tipping

They are NOT going to act like it's a foregone conclusion.  

Our son was born at a Baptist hospital in the Bible Belt, and the doctor came in and asked us totally neutrally whether we wanted our son to have a circumcision. I asked about the details of why people do that, and he said it essentially comes down to cultural choice and there's genuinely no medical reason to do it. It was done to me as an infant, but I felt very strongly that it was not going to be done to my son without medical necessity, so we did not have it done.

It’s really not a sophisticated procedure.

It doesn't come from shame, stop

If it’s long enough, you’d be surprised!

Some doctors/hospitals/L&D locations are better than others at having the conversation with parents, instead of just assuming. 

So have a plan, and be prepared to bring up the conversation if they do not. 

As for the procedure itself, there are virtually no "pros" for it that don't boil down to aesthetics or tradition. Maybe a couple hundred years ago, when clean water and soap was difficult to come by, and basic hygiene wasn't even a glimmer of what it is today, an argument could be made that circumcision helped prevent infections. That's not a concern now, provided you have access to a shower. There is some evidence that the procedure might reduce the risk of penile cancer later in life. But honestly, the reduction is so small, it's difficult to quantify. 

Cons mostly boil down to the procedure itself. I witnessed/assisted with a few during my clinical rotations. And they were difficult. Basically, strap the baby spread eagle to a backboard, and there's a tool with a small blade. A hypersaline soak is about the best he'll get for numbing, but the hospital I was at in NYC did not use any kind of anesthetic or numbing agent. There's a little blood, and a lot of screaming and crying. It'll hurt, but he won't remember it once it's healed. 

It's becoming a lot less popular than it was a few decades ago. I think that's mainly due to moms asking "why should I?", and not receiving satisfactory answers. I think one of the main drivers for its continuing popularity is the fear that uncut will look funny. Worried that girls will be grossed out, or other guys will mock him for it.

Yup. Just had a boy last year and we aren’t circumcising. I think I read the stat similar, like 6/10 in the Midwest

Despite the avalanche of downvotes  I'm going to leave my comment up.  Sometimes people need to be provoked into questioning cultural "norms", and thinking about the arguments a court might hear helped me do that.

But they are also cock-eyed!

if you try to steal from grocery stores and squat in houses instead of having a job you'll find guns pointed at you pretty quickly, actually.

Phimosis is rare and you could have made the decision to get circumcised yourself later in life instead of them deciding for you.

I had the same fight with my (now ex) husband.  I’d done all the research, but at the end, I was so exhausted from everything and the c-section, and just couldn’t keep fighting him.  He won and it happened.  It is one of my biggest regrets for my son.  I hope my son can forgive me for not fighting against this barbaric procedure with more strength…

Our experience was completely different for our boys.  We were asked, and the only person who ever asked us was a urologist who treated a minor infection. 

Glad we didn't and never gave it much thought

OBs do It all the time. My dad has been an OB for 35 years and all the others in his practice do too

But slightly cockeyed.

Tipping is their pay because tipped labor is historicallt associated with servant-type work which was dominated by black people and the white people in the halls of the legislatures across the country agree to carve out exceptions to minimum wage laws at the lobby and behest of white racist owners of restaurants and hotels etc. 

So the only way for a person working for gratuities to earn a living meant that they needed some average amount of tip per customer, and over time this became the 15-20% of your food bill in sit-down restaurants with servers. 

It you don't like it I suggest you do two things. 

First, don't eat at a restaurant that employes.people who rely on tips. Don't order takeout, as a server or other low-wage worker still puts that meal together and packages it for you to take home. Just don't patronize the establishment at all. Second, support politicians at the local, state, and federal level who want to raise the minimum wage, guarantee a living wage, and otherwise supports strong labor protections and rights. Hint: not all democrats will support these, but *zero* Republicans do.

You should. Even if the wages are higher in CA, tips are still a major part of pay in the service industry.

A lot of them are what's called a "vacuum flask", essentially, there is a layer of very-low-pressure air between the innermost and outermost layers of the cup, which doesn't conduct heat nearly as well as any other material, so heat from the oustide has a much harder time entering and warming the contents.

oh boy. you stumbled into one of those "reddit topics". whatever the right answer is, I don't think you're going to get an objective perspective here because people not only have such strong opinions, but the upvote/downvote system skews the results for certain topics on certain subs.    

I will simply leave these facts for your consideration:   

“Our risk-benefit analysis showed that benefits exceeded procedural risks, which are predominantly minor, by up to 200 to 1,” an international team of researchers reported in a 2017 systematic review of 140 studies conducted in the prior decade.

The myriad benefits include:

A large reduction in urinary tract infections, which affect 1 in 12 circumcised males over their lifetime compared to 1 in 3 uncircumcised males.
A large reduction in balantis — a painful, itchy, and potentially disfiguring swelling of the head of the penis — typically caused by fungal infection. The lifetime rate is 12% for uncircumcised men vs. 2% for circumcised men.
A 15% to 50% lower risk of prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in U.S. men, killing 34,500 every year.
An up to 70% lower rate of contracting HIV. (Though this was derived from studies conducted in Africa. The reduction in the U.S. is probably lower, potentially just 16%.)
A 50% lower risk of contracting genital human papillomavirus.
A greatly reduced risk of penile cancer (even though it is rare). The lifetime risk is approximately 1 in 1,000 for an uncircumcised man vs. 1 in 50,000 to 1 in 12,000,000 for a circumcised man.
A reduced risk of giving female sex partners bacterial vaginal infections and sexually transmitted infections.

But it's been normalized thanks to religion.

If you say it three times, Judas appears in the mirror

It is. My mom opted out, and my brother ended up with a very painful issue as an adult and had to do it then, which was awful. He wished she would have done it when he was a newborn.

Just make sure you’ve come out to play before they see it. ;)

It's just uncut people who are mad that they have ugly dicks

People can go from uncircumcised to circumcised, the opposite is not possible.

There's a few people in this same thread saying they noticed a decline in sensitivity after a circumcision as adults

As others have pointed out to you, those studies don't agree with other studies from other countries.

Regardless, the reason the US does it is because a weird religious fundamentalist thought boys were masturbating too much.

Just stop doing it, it's really weird. The kid can chose for themselves later.

Thanks for letting me know. It’s good to hear they’re not all as bad as I saw and I’m glad it went smoothly for them!

If you don’t want it, tell the doctors. It’s a barbaric practice that should be outlawed.

This is a good enough answer. More specifically though, these prefixes are essentially arbitrary. It doesn't/didn't need to be those specific numbers, they just happen to be and got codified into standards.

Do it. Im so thankful my parents did it for me. A hoodie is ugly and unhygienic

I got my penises backward.

Hate it when that happens.

I had a boy last year, in the Midwest. A doctor will come in and consult you and you just let them know you won’t be circumcising. It’s no skin off their back (I’m sorry I’m a tired dad I had to..). Zero pressure at all.

To clarify, I’ve never seen one in person. I don’t think I’d know what to do with it though…

Its a generally safe, but mostly unnecessary procedure that you should have to consent for (big lawsuit if they don't have you do that). 

The major pros is that it's generally considered cleaner (although you can always just teach your son to clean his penis and that kind of goes away) and it reduces the possibility of having a stricture as well as supposedly making a penis look larger, though i would argue shaving your pubic hair does more for that. 

The cons is the possibility of infection and the (minor) potential for nerve damage, although I've seen it argued that circumcised men lose a bit of sensitivity as they age due to frequent inadvertent friction that having a foreskin would protect against.

Personally,  i was circumcised, though they took about 1/4 of the skin they should have, so I still basically am intact and my son is uncircumcised and we have experienced no issues as he approaches 7 years old. My wife deferred to me as another penis having person and that seems reasonable,  but ultimately, as his mom, you will have final say.

Yes. If you project a 2d object to a 1d space, you no longer have a 2d object. Same with a 3d object represented in a 2d space. And so on.

I'm uncircumcised and very outspoken against circumcision.

That said, equating people who defend circumcision to "pedo defenders" is ridiculous.

We should stop circumcising babies, but circumcision has a far lower impact than pedophelia.

By insulating every other side, and a little bit of taking advantage of cool air sinking to act as an additional insulating layer

A lot of the patients I see who come for circumcisions are from nursing homes…which is why it’s so important to teach the CNAs and caregivers the proper way to clean uncircumcised men!!

My obgyn performed my boys’ procedures. I don’t think it’s uncommon.

So you can just not tip, and they make at least minimum wage anyway?

As a pediatrician who has to ask if parents wanted their baby circ'd when I was a resident (but the OB team performed them, reluctantly, so I had no financial stake), I think the reason you get asked a lot has more to do with work flow - it's really annoying to have a patient ready go home and then they tell you they want a procedure that takes time to arrange. And at discharge, parents want things to happen right away so any wait is unacceptable.

Used to watch him all the time. My favourite was when he repo'd a car from a trailer park. It was parked under the nose of a fifth wheel camper, just inches from touching the roof. He was able to swing in there, grab it, drag it out from under, and pull it away. Think the owner was a \[short-peoples\].

After his wife passed, he was never the same.

OB GYNs do circumcisions? You don’t want a pediatric urologist for that?

You realize that somewhere around 98% of the (presumably) circumcised Middle Easterners are not Israeli, no?

As they should.  Service jobs aren’t easy.  They deal with a lot of abuse by entitled, rude, and otherwise nasty people, not to mention a lot of unwanted physical contact if they’re women.

I am circumcised. I've never had an issue with it. I asked my Mom why and she went off about how it is cleaner. I asked my Dad (who is not circumcised) his opinion and he just shrugged.

My son is not circumcised. It is voluntary surgery. All surgery comes with risks. The only reason I would have circumcised him is if there was a history of need in my family.

You mean the vulva, not the vagina. It's a common misconception, but the vagina is the inside part, and the vulva is the outside part, with the labia and such

I watched both my boys. They slept through the entire thing. Each one is different though. I don't want to take away from those other babies.

Glad to see that you feel the need to mutilate your child’s genitals just to make it look more appealing to you. What a fucked up thing to even say.

Right, cause you remember the whole thing right?

And the entire rest of the world that's not islamic or Jewish. Let's just not count them. Only America exists.

Its not rude. They've just become accustomed to you paying their wages instead of their employers. 

Its rude not to pay your employees. Waiters and drivers are not my employees

I agree with you. My friend’s baby couldn’t be circumcised at birth so she had it done when he was 9 months old. I had two kids at the time, and had never heard a baby scream like he did when she changed his diaper. It was awful. 

I also agree with you about running through men and noticing the difference 😂 it doesn’t have to be completely botched.  It is noticeable when some aren’t as sensitive and a bit too much skin was removed.

This is exactly why I don't get it. Everyone agrees FGM is bad, but when it's a boy, it's suddenly okay?

It's male genital mutilation. But it's been normalized thanks to religion.

Yes wash your dick. The “we need more data” is in regards to whether it should be recommended by national health organizations as standard protocol for all neonates. That does not mean it has not been proven to reduce the risk of many medical conditions….which was my point… I don’t care what you do or don’t do with your kids but my point stands. There are medical reasons to do it.

There are medical reasons to do so.  It reduces incidences of some STDs, including HIV, which is why the world health organization recommends routine circumcision in parts of Africa.  In developed countries the benefits probably are not great enough to warrant routine circumcision, but it does have medical benefits.

They're also the #1 supporters of keeping things the way they are, as they usually make significantly more than what they would be paid otherwise.

Have you ever used Reddit?

So technically the restaurant isn't required by law to pay minimum wage, but in practice it kinda is. Well at least there is some safety net, a shitty net, but better than nothing I guess

In most of Europe, tips are considered extra. Wages tend to be enough to live on. In the US, there are laws that allow employers to pay their servers exceptionally low, as the expectation has come that customers will essentially pay the server's wages. It is a double edged sword because on the one side, servers can sometimes earn decently off of tips. On the other side is that on the whim of the customer or lack of business, they can be adversely affected financially. While the restaurant in many cases must compensate for some amount of money, it is generally never close to what a server might make on a good night with all customers tipping well.

I had a mole at the top of the foreskin that my dermatologist wanted gone. Because of idiots on the internet claiming there would be no difference I opted for a full circumcision instead.

If I had the choice I'd have voted against scalpel genital mutilation.

Yeah, if the dick is erect, the foreskin kinda naturally rolls back anyway.

They reduce the surface area in which heat can be readily transferred. Think about it this way. With an uninsulated cup, 100% of the surface area can fairly efficiently transfer heat out of the liquid. With one with insulated sides but an open top, now only, say, 20% of the surface area can do so.

This one is jumping to the top of my queue!

Not sure if you looked deep into the studies they cite, but I see two things; 1. Recent European and Canadian studies do not agree, based on their own population. 2. Certain countries might definitely still benefit from male circumcision, mostly due to hygiene.

US does prefer to go their own way compared to the rest of the world on certain hot-topic issues and it's very clear that the medical community seems to favour anything that can be added to the bill.

What bias? That is their “normal” look after all.

Remember that the biggest proponents of these wage rules are servers themselves, because they often make significantly more through tips than they would if paid a regular wage. If they were paid a regular wage, they wouldn't be able to guilt people into paying them what should be an optional portion of their bill.

I never understood that. Just don't work a below minimum wage job.

Not in California. Never feel bad for not tipping in California.

It’s not done under no pain management, they numb the area before doing the procedure

Because in the US we really, really dislike paying people a living wage. The US government supports this attitude, and not only doesn’t require employers to pay a living wage, in some cases employers aren’t even required to pay the federally mandated *minimum* wage. Consumers need to make up the deficit by tipping. Then at tax time, the government will say, “We’re going to assume you made $X in tips, so you owe taxes on $X, even if the truth is you made nowhere near that in tips.  The US likes to think of itself as a classless society, but we have zero respect for working class people.

If we had wanted our son circumcised, we would have had to pay for it out of pocket. Everything else was covered by insurance. We already were planning not to, but also we couldn't have afforded it if we wanted to.

Have you seen the Netflix documentary “American Circumcision”? I believe this will shed some light on making a non-religious-based choice.  
  
I know I would’ve preferred to have the choice as an adult instead of one being made for me as a newborn.

Yep, 7.25 is exploitation in 2026.

Knowing reddit I will get downvoted for this, but here goes:

When we found out we were pregnant with my son, I made a point to ask any medical professional their advice on this topic.  I asked pediatricians, nurses, obgyns, our surgeon, my GP.  All in all about 15 out of 15 suggested circumcision, despite what I had seen on reddit. 

I thought to myself, if I consulted that many medical professionals about the covid vaccine, and listened to what people on the internet told me to do, I may have died from covid.

And so we circumcisized the boy.

In terms of women I've spoken to, although I've never personally been rejected for being circumcised, I've had women tell me that they would refuse a circumcised person, while conversely, I don't think I've ever met a woman who has ever held the opposite policy.

I think it's more that women who prefer circumcision have it as a preference whereas women who prefer uncircumcision have it as a hard rule

Tbf, this is anecdotal, I'm basing this off of personal conversations not any data

Ships float because the total volume of the ship weighs less than an equal volume of water.  

Ships don't lean all the way because there's sideways pressure on both sides.  
Picture you and a friend standing on opposite sides of a bookcase (in front and behind), and both of you push with the same force towards each other. The bookcase doesn't tilt.

That's the real question parents should be asked. "do you want to cut off part of your baby's penis? To honor a guy who invented cereal and wanted to reduce people's sexual pleasure?" Circumcision rates would drop real fast if it was asked that way.

I had the same experience, but  it was 4 times.

There's a reason why two thirds of the world don't do it. It's totally unnecessary and is a form of genital mutilation.

It's also not automatic as doctors aren't stupid enough to do an irreversible procedure without parental consent. In fact, in some US states circumcision rates are as low as 10%.

While I agree with using the brake on a hill (and some new cars do it automatically) but really how often do pawls fail?  It doesn't seem to be a common event--in my 35 years of driving, I've never seen it happen or heard of it happening to anyone I know.

They use them in eyelid replacement surgery. Those folks end up with a lot of foresight.

For my son born in 2021, the nurse was very aggressive in pushing for circumcision when we declined.  It was a very odd situation as I thought it was inappropriate for a nurse to be pushing for an elective procedure.

Of course they get pissy. You can't expect someone to say "I got underpaid today but maybe someday if I get underpaid enough times there will be legislation that will make it so I can't dodge taxes anymore"

As a man who got circumcised during adulthood, it feels the same.

I dont want to say it's done by default but it's a religious practice that was later adapted by the general public and I disagree with it.

There are limited pros, there are RARE cases where it's medically necessary, and i believe the cons outweigh them in most cases.
As with any surgery, there's a risk of accident, and more critically, its a bodily autonomy issue: it is done without the child's consent.
It is a superficial procedure and frankly, shouldn't be done without those rare medically necessary cases being involved.
They can have it done at adulthood if they so wish

Circumcision riaks severe chronic pain and sensory issues later in life.

It is not as common anymore.

There is a whole culture and even sub on reddit filled with men who are trying to correct their circumcisions for various reasons. 

I did not do it to my son and do not believe that mutilation of genitals or any parts of a baby, same as any other any human who cannot consent, especaily when said mutilation serves no medical or functional purpose, is ethical or acceptable.

Your sons penis and body are not yours to mutilate and you've got no medical or practical reason to do it.

Would you cut off a chunck of your daughter's labia or vulva?

I’m a circumcised dad of five un-circumcised boys. It simply isn’t a medical necessity. Period.

The problem is that even though it's the same procedure, it's not necessarily the same result. A four year old breaking their arm falling off a bike and a forty year old doing the same are going to have different outcomes when it comes to lasting pain and function after recovery. The same may be true when it comes to sensitivity here, but unless we start circumcising one of two twins and checking in on them in 20 years (wildly unethical,) there's not really a good way to say "this is more or less sensitivity than you *would* have had."

Things like scar tissue, risk of botched operations for subjective aesthetic gain, the lack of consent in the matter are more objective avenues of attack

It shouldn’t be the customer’s responsibility but your aim is wrong by sort of implicitly blaming waiters for taking these jobs (“nobody puts a gun to their head.”) Restaurants should pay their employees proper wages.

The problem is that you aren’t defining the plane with 2 points. You are using 2 points as constants to solve for 3 points (or as many points as you want, but at least 3) that will then define the plane. 

The insult was because you seemingly can’t seem to follow the conversation. Read the comments in order from your first one again. 

First you say “collection of all points” then you say “which other points” as if you already forgot your own comment. After I pointed that out by saying “according to your comment, all of them” you then tried to act like I was saying “you need all points of a plane to define it” when in fact that was your comment, not mine

Maybe in the US with the prevalence of private tow companies, but watching a RR get towed in London is just what we call Tuesday.

I hate when I’m up against the clock in baseball

Many people are saying it’s not automatic, and that is true. YOU and your partner have the ultimate choice. I would be lying if I said that when my son was born, they didn’t essentially assume we would do it when they asked:

“Should I schedule circumcision?”

Hospitals are incentivized to do them. That’s free money for a quick and cheap procedure. They can make a few grand in less than 30 min.

The hospital my son was born (Cincinnati)  at was incredulous I did not opt in.  4 different times  I had  to explain no!.  My responsibility was to keep him in one piece as much as possible till he was 18 or otherwise considered responsible.  

I have never known an adult decide 'yes, i would now like to chop off the end of my penis'  (yes, I know they exist, I've just never known or met someone).  

In case i'm not clear enough, Male Genital Mutilation should be considered a crime.

If they don't make minimum wage the employer is required to pay the difference. Waiters make good money. So no, they don't make 2 bucks an hour

Yes, and when you check in to the hospital and sign all the forms without reading them, you are giving them consent to whatever their standard 'birthing plan' is.

And for many hospitals, that standard birthing plan still includes circumcision for male babies.

They "get pissy?" They are justifiably angry. They aren't personally responsible for the shitty wage and labor laws of the states nor responsible for their employers' actions. 

If you dine out in the US, you not tipping is telling your servers that you don't give a fuck if they earn an income doing work for you. That's all it is. You aren't engaged in a useful form of protest. Want to protest? Boycott the restaurants which do not actively advertise their no-tipping policies.

That still doesn’t make it the same thing

They can founder in waves - generally if you're in weather anywhere near that being an issue, you go headfirst into the waves so they're throwing you up and down instead of trying to tip you over.

More generally, ships float by being less dense than the volume of water they'd displace.  Same reason oil floats on water, or air floats on water, or hydrogen floats on air.  It's all one big soup, with the densest sinking to the bottom, and the least dense floating to the top.

In urban areas like London yes, and it's largely a consequence of the space constraints of a car parked on the road. You'll still see them dolly and drag when appropriate, such as retrieving cars from suburban driveways that are suspected as proceeds of crime.

I hate to break it to you but the customer of every business pays for the wages of the employees of that business.

They are heavy on the bottom and light on top. Think of a hot air balloon. The top part is less dense than the air surrounding it, but the basket is heavy and keeps it upright. Ships are similar. The top part, although heavy, is not as dense as the water it displaces, so the ship floats. The very bottom of the boat is heavy, which keeps the “lighter” top part on top, similar to a hot air balloon.

Lol.  Who are these people that come out to defend genital mutilation of babies?  They're as bad as pedo defenders.

Personally it sucks. I ended up with a perfectly pretty member but it wasn't until my mid 20's that I learned sex wasn't supposed to hurt.

It's a legal category carved out for tipped employees. 

If your pay even with tips is less than minimum wage the employer is required to make up the difference. 

As for why. Well the US is just real good at taking care of companies instead of people.

Funny how the "my body, my choice" crowd is completely inverse when it comes to circumcision.

Remember everyone;

Talk about goblins as much as possible, hopefully we can fuck up more models.

Shouldn’t be the customer’s responsibility to subsidize worker’s wages. 

You're paying their wages one way or another.

My understanding is that if they don’t make up the difference the employer is required to pay the difference to reach $7.25. But since our federal minimum wash is such bullshit, tips are still necessary.

The average age for the foreskin to become retractable is 10. At 5, it is not supposed to retract.  Your doctor's 5% number is based on misunderstanding. There are many countries where the percentage of circumcised males is below 1%.

Hello LividWheel9779,

Your {submission} has been removed because **you didn't start your title with ELI5**. By making sure users follow this rule, we hope they will also learn and follow *all* the rules of the sub, helping us to maintain the quality users come here for.

Please re-submit your post.

Thank you for your understanding! If this was sent in error, feel free to message the moderators using this link about it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/explainlikeimfive) if you have any questions or concerns.*

If staff isn't tipped enough to make up the difference between the lower minimum wage and standard, the employer has to make it up.

This is why you should never buy gribenes from a mohel. It’s so chewy.

As an uncircumcised man, I can tell you I have never had a single issue with disease, hygiene, or any other negative. It is not harder to clean or urinate (easier IMO).

The “worst” thing that has happened was when I got with women who were not accustomed to an uncircumcised man, but had no complaints.

Sexually, I would argue it’s the best damn thing. I make my own lubricant (no lubes, tissues, lotion necessary).

I can tell that the foreskin significantly heightens my experience. (I mean, think about it: soft, smooth skin moving back and forth, as you penetrate. It’s like a double win, and sure feels like it).

 Apologies on that graphic part, I know the post is about your soon to be newborn, but it’s important to understand.

Finally: I’m not some anti-circumcision protester, but goddamn is it a barbaric practice with no benefit in my real world experience.

It is your decision, but…

Was it *his* decision?

Nice, throwing in there the “that’s what they’re supposed to look like.” You couldn’t help but throw your bias in there, huh.

If they don't make minimum after tips, the employer is required to make the difference. Sounds bad but bartenders and waitresses make pretty good money.

If tips don't come to at least minimum wage the restaurant is required to pay the difference.

Fairly certain the restaurant must cover the wage up to minimum wage if tips don't cover it. Js

Baby can't put out back, only from around 7 years old. Don't push him in any way, he will found out by himself.
If by 10, he still can't. He needs to check with a doctor.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Loaded questions, **and/or** ones based on a false premise, are not allowed on ELI5. ELI5 is focused on objective concepts, and loaded questions and/or ones based on false premises require users to correct the poster before they can begin to explain the concept involved, if one exists. 

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

You're not getting it. Define one point on your floor, then define a point 1 foot above it. That defines "up" from that plane. There's only one possible plane that would have that "up" direction and pass through that point on the floor.

We should do that if they are or aren’t circumcised.  To reiterate, my point was that MC does have a medical benefit. That is all.

You guys are really in your element today.

Pretty much all of my long-term partners at some point well into the relationship have said something along the lines of "wait, you're uncircumcised?" It was simply something they were used to and didn't think about.

Ship heavy

Ship full of air 

Air wants to go up

Heavy ship goes down in water

Air wants to stay above water 

Air keeps ship above water

I’m cut. Please prevent male genital mutilation on your child.

There's no trauma. Quit making things up.

On principle I would agree. But the wages will need to be paid somehow. It's either tip with the current system or pay higher prices across the board. You'd be subsidizing their pay regardless.

It can always be done later in life, when they can actually consent.

If the wage was reasonable and tipping eliminated, your bill would be 20% higher anyway. I wish we'd do that, but don't pretend like you're not paying the worker's wages either way. You're the customer, the entire business is "subsidized" by you

The economy is what forces people to have jobs, so you’re right that “no one” is making them do anything.

Why if it was so much better?

So he gets paid like $16 an hour to perform surgery?

Hull shape and ballast at the bottom of the hull. And boats do sometimes sink in rough seas.

Stick your tongue out and then wrap a scarf tightly around your head and keep it there for a few hours. It feels uncomfortable for your tongue rubbing against your scarf right? I bet it’s getting dry, maybe a bit raw. 

Well thats what it feels like for an uncircumcised person to expose their gland in their pants and walk around for a bit. Uncomfortably rubbing against something it’s not supposed to. 

So I imagine you either eventually loose or become accustomed to that sensitivity when circumcised or they’re constantly uncomfortable.

No radio reference clock is perfect. The FM signal itself contains a usable carrier frequency that all modulation happens on top of. The actual demodulation itself happens via a circuit called a detector.

The gist of how basic FM detectors (envelope detectors) work is that you take a time derivative of the FM signal, resulting in an equivalent AM signal, and then demodulate that AM signal using an envelope detector. This can be done numerically or clever tricks with off-resonance to perform analog differentiation. AM envelope detectors naturally don't need their own oscillator to work, so they will happily accept this new output. They can directly use diodes and RC networks to extract baseband audio. In fact, if you look at how a heterodyne actually works, you can actually use an AM demodulator directly on an FM signal by tuning slightly above the FM carrier. One of the components of frequency mixing mimics differentiation, and you will get usable audio, although poor quality.

Nowadays, none of these are used. Instead, most of the demodulation happens in software.

As for background static, your intuition make sense if you look at it from a signal waterfall perspective (frequency domain): all the little specks (noise) that aren't the modulated carrier, what do they do? Do they "trick" the circuit? Well, again, since we're looking at the time domain, those specks don't really matter. You can still take the derivative of the signal, because it's comprised of smooth sinusoids (thanks to Fourier). So, the detector doesn't really need to tell the difference between signal and noise, it just does dumb differentiation unconditionally. Of course, if there is noise, then the differentiation won't be 100% accurate, and that results in noise in the AM signal.

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Rule 7 states that users must search the sub before posting to avoid repeat posts within a year period. If your post was removed for a rule 7 violation, it indicates that the topic has been asked and answered on the sub within a short time span. Please search the sub before appealing the post. 

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

That makes a yard of sense

Fun fact: Saabs (all FWD until the company started selling 'badge engineered' cars) had the parking break on the front wheels.

I find it really hard not to resent my parents for making that decision. We’re not Jewish so the only reason they chose this was so that they wouldn’t have to explain why my dick looked a little different than my dad’s. Luckily they did a lot more harmful things that I resent them for.

"making the resulting material very hard and can’t bend well."

 this is generally the compromise you want ot have with Steel production,as per most things in material science, if it doesnt bend it will break , so you make it t otarget the intended use case

What is considered socially acceptable or necessary is, in the specifics, arbitrary. It is rude because it is considered rude. Why is it important to bow in places where that is done? Or shake hands in others? Make eye contact or not? Use specific forms of address?

Also if there a burn victim or need skin grafts for any reason circumcision rules out that skin as a possibility.

How long ago? I have boys one born 2016, one born 2021. I don’t remember it being more than a question asked we said no and nobody ever brought it up again. Two different hospitals both in SoCal

He gets to keep the tip though

Am a penis haver. Circumcised at birth. 

I know there are some uncommon medical conditions that can be lessened or prevented entirely by performing the procedure. However I also know that those same medical conditions are also preventable with good hygiene and proper education on male genital health. Ultimately there’s no real reason to do it at birth except in very uncommon cases. So it’s more of an aesthetic choice. As fucked as that is. 

I’ve heard stories before of American doctors just doing it automatically without asking. It’s very common to be circumcised in America. So I’d be sure to mention PRIOR to the birth if you decided not to do it. 

But that might also just be a scary tale. Anyways, I’m told it makes your penis less sensitive than uncircumcised ones. I can’t confirm having no personal experience. As a circumcised guy, I don’t personally have any issue reaching climax by myself or with a partner. But who knows, maybe it would’ve felt 10x as good and I never got to know. 

For whatever value this has: I don’t remember the procedure at all and I like how I look. But that’s just my personal feelings on it.

With all due respect, why is an obgyn performing circumcisions? Isn’t that pediatrician’s domain?

Because it’s not a fun little incentive, it’s literally how they live. 

The system is fucked, but it’s not the worker’s fault that it sucks. Not tipping them isn’t going to change that.

Could we avoid mutilating and damaging baby dicks by teaching them to wear a condom(as they should be anyways) when they're of age to understand?

There are many doctors surgeries in Canada that are no longer offering the service.

There’s literally people who commented in this thread about having it done as an adult and they say that it reduces sensitivity.

It’s because crazy old man Kellogg back in the day thought beating your meat would lead you to the devil, so he promoted circumcision to reduce sensitivity to lessen whacking off. Truly.

The baby obviously doesn’t remember the pain. But i think it’s wrong to say it’s more painful later in life. Babies can’t communicate how painful It is so there is no way to know that. I think it’s much more traumatic for a baby to suddenly feel horrendous pain under no pain management than for a grown man to do It knowingly, under anesthesia, and with copious pain medicine after.

it's so strange that we just accept genital mutilation.

The Kellogg (the doctor, not his brother, the cereal guy) that came up with the procedure was simply obsessed with stopping masturbation.

I ask new parents about it with the preface of why are you concerned about your baby masturbating?

Circumcised or not, that's a pretty weird reason to refuse to sleep with someone

Just be aware that here on reddit, male circumcision on infants is viewed as one of the most barbaric things you can do.  That is not normal outside of reddit. 

Here on reddit, people will pour out of the woodwork saying how they wish it wasn't done to them. I have not met one single person outside of reddit who holds that opinion.

People on reddit will say that circumcision reduces sensitivity. I have not met anyone outside of reddit who has the opinion that their sex life is not good because they were circumcised. 

My point is take everything you hear about circumcision on reddit with a grain of salt.  Please make your own decision.

* They are enthusiasts, which is why they work in a car-adjacent industry

* They check the VIN

* They read the badge

* They check for a transfer case underneath

* Sometimes they don't and they make bad noises.

Eight bucks? That's so confusing.

Why is that? Doesn't seem very fair. Technically customers aren't required by law to tip

I'm not an American, but from what I understand waiters are paid next to nothing (like 2$ an hour) and are instead expected to make money through tips. So if a customer doesn't tip, they essentially just worked for free.

There is a medical reason why you may want one in your later life and that is phimosis. It can be very painful for boys, hygiene is awful and it stops that from reoccurring.

The problem is that the marketing team for circumcision was so successful at moving the narrative away from desensitization that the proponents of it believe other reasons that had to be dug up.

Nobody puts a gun to their head and forces them to take that job. Shouldn’t be the customer’s responsibility to subsidize worker’s wages.

Except they could just wash their dick...

Europe doesn't do it, we're not all riddled with STDs. As I have pointed out already the conclusion of that study was actually "we need more data".

Since my initial comment was removed for being too short, I am going to write one that is longer than it needs to be: Don't ever, for any reason, do anything, to anyone, for any reason, ever, no matter what, no matter where, or who, or who you are with, or where you are going, or where you've been, ever, for any reason whatsoever take any medical advise from Reddit. Reddit is one step above an LLM in that regard. A responsible parent should only be getting medical advice for their child from a pediatrician.

and instead of  or having labour laws adapt ot force these businesses ot pay proper wages, they get pissy if ppl refuse to  do the job of their employers.

  
"tipping" is a very much US thing when it comes ot thr expectation of it.

The world needs more nerds like that one.

I'm glad I'm circusised. My poor nephew wasn't but then had problems and had to have it done when he was 8. Better as a baby methinks.

*Laughs in Saab*

...wait

Because ordinary people do fucked up things when fucked up things become ordinary.

To be more specific, it's sold to parents as a hygiene thing, which kinda falls apart when you realize that the difference is made up for with an extra 5 seconds in the shower. Teach your kid to have good hygiene and there's no difference.

depends on where you are, and/or which hospital you give birth in. I know guys whose parents say they did not ask for their baby to be circumcised and hospital staff just did it anyway because that was the normal thing to do. that was years ago though

It'd obviously be performed at a hospital, unless he went to some back alley shit that doesn't really exist in Europe.

And obvs you can't feel the difference. You are literally desensitised

I read up on it a while back as in Europe it is not routinely done and I was curious. From what I found it seems the research showing it has health benefits is pretty controversial and not well founded. The fact circumcision does come with potential risks (loss of sensation, permanent itchiness, discomfort and such) should mean it should be reconsidered as a routine thing for boy infants imho.

Tips are an expected contribution towards the living expenses of the employee.

The main answer is that this very small range actually isn't so small if you look at the two extremes of the spectrum. At one end you have pure ferrite (pure iron crystals), and at the other end cementite.  
Cementite is a chemical Fe3C, consisting of 6.7% carbon by weight and 93.3% iron. It is incredibly brittle, and is basically ceramic.

So while you see a range of 0-100%, the actual useful range is 0-6.7%. A difference of 1% suddenly becomes massive.

So you only need 6.7% carbon for your steel to be this rock-like substance.  
Between that 0 and 6.7% there's an incredible range of useful steels:  
  
Near 0% carbon you have pure ferrite crystals. Strong, but not very hard. As you go up, some different zebra-stripe like crystals start to form that are layers of ferrite and layers of cementite. This is the zone of all mild construction steel. These perlite crystals are a balance of soft ductile ferrite and hard brittle cementite.

At 0.8% carbon you have pure perlite. This steel is used for railway tracks. Things that need strength and are under very heave wear and tear.

As you go beyond 0.8%, there are no pure ferrite crystals left, the cementite content increases and your steel becomes incredibly hard. Steel between this and 2% is used for cutting tools: stuff that needs to stay sharp under incredible stresses.

It's because customarily the cost of paying certain employees is shared between the employer and their customers.  Servers and delivery drivers take jobs that have lower pay because they know it is made up for by tips.  When you don't tip someone who traditionally gets tips, you're violating the social contract and essentially stealing services.

As a... whole male I'm glad I'm still able to make a little pee balloon and release it all at once whenever I feel like it. There's no fun like bathroom fun.

More seriously though, don't make that decision for him. If he wants to he'll be able to do it later in life.

People always overlook the number of botched circumcisions, infections, and other complications.

I had to edit because I got my penises backward.

It is NOT automatic and you don't HAVE TO do anything. Don't be afraid to advocate for yourself or have someone else with you that can do so. We decided against it for my son, and the doctor said "oh good, I was hoping I wouldn't have to do that today" and that was all I needed to know we made the right choice for ourselves. Of course, this is your son so you do what YOU feel is right.

" it’s super weird that we default to a religious practice"  
its weird that the USA has that default, but it is not a religious practice. Circumcision became common in the USA for supposed medical benefits and to discourage masturbation

My mom in English so neither me or my brothers were circumcised.  Not gonna lie, it was a little rough going through young adult life having to explain it to people, but now that Im grown I went back and thanked my parents.  Im almost 40 and my shit looks amazing.  

You made the right call for your boy! Options always there

Yeah, true, some do be like that. And yes, likely many more than I would guess.

As far as I know there's an entire site called my phimosis journey or something like that that narrates how one guy went from severe phimosis to having a completely functional penis without surgeries but only with stretching exercises (and there should be some steroid creams for it too iirc)

Still, circumcision is still the fastest way, but if someone else suffers from phimosis and wants to try out a less invasive way can look up the site and proceed with caution and make an idea for himself

It was done for health reasons back 40-60 years ago in U.S, Australia, and U.K. 

Its now not automatically done as the science doesn't show any real benefits for the risk. Its a fairly risky procedure for it more or less being unnecessary. Its not overall risky but with anything their is a chance of something going wrong. Also human error they take too much or too little off etc.

The U.S is the last hold out medically and culturally besides Islamic, Jewish and African countries. Africa is one of the few places where non Muslims or Jews get it done.

I had it done when I was a baby I still enjoy sex, and it doesn't seem to be too much a problem in Islamic, Jewish or African countries. That being said from simple biology and the experiences of people circumcized as adults it seems likely to reduce pleasure during sex. 

A friend of mine said he had it done around 5 and he couldn't walk for a few days. It was and still is commonly done as a right of passage into manhood in many cultures so yeah it hurts.

The only people I've ever heard of disliking and discouraging it are on reddit.

Should tell you everything you need to know.

In America, for some reason the Gov't allows the restaurants to pay way below minimum wage with the idea they will be making most of their money off tips.  I have heard as low as $3.25/hour.  Can't say for sure how low they can go there.  But if you don't tip then they will be making less than minimum wage.

Dang, are you in a Bible Belt state? Or gave birth in a religious affiliated hospital? I have 3 kids, two boys, I didn’t get asked regarding circumcising for either of them (I live in Southern California)

My dad is an obgyn. He gets paid something like 8$ per circumcision. There is absolutely ZERO financial incentive for them.

Their salary is very low because they're supposed to be getting tips to make up the difference. So if you don't tip, you had them do work for you without fair pay.

I don't like it as a system, but that's the reason.

Sometimes, yeah. We probably use "yard" where others might say "lot."

It's genital mutilation and child sexual abuse. If you wouldn't circumcise your daughter, you shouldn't circumcise your son.

The original comment was “Two points can define a plane by taking the collection of all points that are at equal distance from both points. In that case, the points define the plane but they are not on it.”

The “collection of all points” is more than 2 points. This is a method of representing a plane with 2 points and an equation that will allow you to then “define” the plane… using an infinite number of points

Don't let them genitally mutilate your kid, let your kid decide when they grow up

Not automatic. You'd have to schedule a procedure. As for weighing pro's and con's, this is something that is more or less a decision for you and your significant other to discuss.

I can't imagine it being more sensitive, is that how the jokes originate with people lasting 4 seconds?  
Because everything feels amazing and I'm circumcised, if it was any more sensitive nah, no chance.

By law waiters can make sub minimum wage so they do need some sort of tipping. What percent is fair for them and the customer?  Right now it seems 20%.

In most states those jobs aren't required to pay minimum wage. In NC for example server wage starts at $2.13 per hour. Tips are literally their pay.

If you skip cleaning your uncircumcised penis, it becomes extremely uncomfortable by day three.

I've been on a few backcountry trips where I went a little wild, I can assure you that I did not want to put off a bath once the itching started.

Of course there are always people who can power through any discomfort, but for me the reminder was overwhelming.

Again, I never said all males should be circumcised or that it is better than any other measure of disease prevention. Simply replied to the comment saying it DOES carry medical benefit and not simply cosmetic/religious. 

Irregardless of circumcision status, all teens should receive the HPV vaccine.

People are thinking about this like defining a triangle that lies on this plane. 2 points in a line, and adding a third. So when you said to take 2 points and every point equidistant from them, people were thinking you were saying "define an infinite number of additional points and you've defined your plane".

I think I see what you're actually describing (that the plane lies perpendicular to the line between the 2 points) but I still *feel* like it should be insufficient. Not in a position to google around and confirm though

They’ll ask if you want it done.  Feel free to say yes or no depending on your personal preference.

It's not automatic, you as the parent consent on behalf of the child, or deny it. It's purely cosmetic, there are literally no pros to this procedure. Teach your son to clean himself, change his poopy diapers, and then if there's is somehow an actual issue later on, THEN treat it.

Yea look up the “social hygiene movement “ in the early 20th century. It was a weird puritanical way of thinking that bound up physical moral and social “hygiene” all together.

It absolutely can: The pawl can fail (it's just an ounce of thin steel holding often several tonnes of car) and if it fails it goes into neutral.

It genuinely scares me when I see people letting the transmission rotate back on to the pawl when they park on a hill, as that's literally asking for the piece to fatigue; Just pull your handbrake, it doesn't explode...

**Your submission has been removed for the following reason(s):**

Top level comments (i.e. comments that are direct replies to the main thread) are reserved for explanations to the OP or follow up on topic questions.

Short answers, while allowed elsewhere in the thread, may not exist at the top level.

Full explanations typically have 3 components: context, mechanism, impact. Short answers generally have 1-2 and leave the rest to be inferred by the reader.

---

If you would like this removal reviewed, please read the detailed rules first. **If you believe this submission was removed erroneously**, please use this form and we will review your submission.

It's the same in 10D, though, you only need to know 3 non-colinear points of a 2D plane sitting in 10D space to determine the plane. That is to say, the fact that we need 3 points is because a plane is 2D and 3=2+1, not because that's the dimension of the ambient space.

Off topic but "car yard"?  Is that what they call car dealerships in the upside down?

Yeah cutting off mass leaves you with less mass to grow cancer in, more news at 7

There is literally zero reasons for child genital mutilation outside of truly crippling phimosis, and any argument to general health benefits is just severe religious copium. More than 300000 circumcisions need to be performed to prevent just ONE case of penile cancer. Developed nations with proper hygiene shows an even more miniscule risk of such cancer.

\> He's your son. It's your choice.

I really don't get this logic. Why is it the parent's choice? Let the kid make the choice once they are old enough. Like you wouldn't say piercing an infant's ears is the parent's choice. And IMO cutting the end of their dick off is a lot more impactful then tiny holes in their earlobes.

Pull what thread? Get banned from where for saying what?

fun fact, it can actually work both ways as a side effect. it can dull sensation for some but it can also cause unwanted over sensitivity in others. it’s almost like we shouldn’t be messing with our bodies in that way unless medically necessary

Because I got circumcised as an adult.

I don’t know about the second part but the first part always was, and is, flat out bullshit.

It is common, it isn’t automatic, it is far less common than it used to be and it is getting less common each year. You have to ask for it.

Hahaha, what a great question. Take his eyelids too, why not? Everyone else is doing it - it’s all the rage!

Pay for a circumcision when he's older if he wants it but otherwise leave it as God intended

Why? Like there’s no downside, it’s just weird.

Around $600 in California 12 years ago. Insurance doesn’t cover it.

I am straight and I’ve seen SO many circumcised and uncircumcised dicks. How had a gay guy not?

Uncircumcised penises are gross af lol they look like little worms or Pigs in a Blanket downvotes to the right Reddit 😂

Not automatic now, but it was when I was born.

you lose nerve endings if you are circumsized, so you will never know  how sex feels with an unmutilated genital.

Well, it definitely SHOULDN'T be automatic, that one supposes it is so is a great flaw in our thinking and the allowing of whatbis basically a mediaeval practice today.

It is also extremely dangerous if done incorrectly. The skill required to do this to an infant is extremely high, and we all know by now most healthcare practitioners are human and consider it a job. 

To understand why an infant is more at risk, you'll have to look up the form of the child's organ in detail. 

That certified medical practitioners condone this idiotic process is confounding. 

I've read reports of how this prevents STDs, however it would seem basic hygiene practice is more than enough to prevent that.

Instructions unclear. Circumcising your mom

Same reason we give them vaccines. To prevent them from harm or inflicting harm (unknowingly) to others.

I’m not making things up. I didn’t say you remember it. I said people form emotional associations and impressions immediately. It’s the same reason that people molested as infants can carry that trauma into adulthood. I fault you for being ok with taking bodily autonomy from people.

What dobn't you know?

You’d think so, but we specifically chose not to and had to re-remind them three separate times because people kept trying to schedule it. The third time was the guy coming to our room to take him away to have it done. Wtf guys.

i cum in seconds without a foreskin. i can only imagine the microseconds i would last with.

bold of you to assume they care about your transmission. pretty sure the local guys just drag them anyway and let the owners figure out those expensive new noises later.

Big difference between a loss of sensitivity and an inability to maintain an erection.

I witnessed a circumcision during volunteer hospital rounds and passed out. The amount of screaming and pain the baby was in, while strapped open to a board, was traumatic to watch (let alone experience). I challenge anyone getting one for their child to have to watch one live and then decide if they want to make a cosmetic decision to mutilate their baby.

It’s not automatic. It’s completely voluntary. I had my son circumcised 30 years ago because his father and all the males in my family (reportedly) had been circumcised. If I could go back, I wouldn’t have done it. It was recommended because it was considered hygienic, but now I think it’s barbaric. My son he never had problems because of it, but when you know better, you wish you’d done better.

Please clarify, when you've "seen more women..."

You mean women you've attempted to personal bed, women you've talked to about bedding yourself, or female friends you've talked to.

Because absent some context this does seem like a lot of anecdotal internet imagination

"or stand in solidarity with a certain country in the Middle East"

Which one?

Guar (/ɡwɑːr/)[1] are large bipedal omnivorous reptiles native to Morrowind and Black Marsh.[2] They are the primary domesticated herd animal of these provinces, and are not usually aggressive.

There are medical benefits to doing it - reduced risk of UTIs and STIs as well as removing the risk of balanitis (inflammation)

Exactly. Who are these disgusting people with stinky dicks wandering around? I’ve seen some circumcised dicks, and they’re crusty. Almost like, you know, they’re not supposed to be like that…

They literally do lmao it's one of the biggest arguments against sleeping with single moms. 

Not saying I agree with it. However, those types of gender norms go both ways. Circumcision is probably the only thing that men deal with.

I get what you’re saying, but that’s not 2 points defining a plane, it’s 2 points *and an extra bit of information* that defines the plane.  2 points alone cannot define a plane, and you have to add additional context, like “the plane is equidistant from the two points” or “point A is on the plane and the A->B line is normal to it”.  In my opinion, that additional required context constitutes a 3rd point.

A triangle is a planar figure. It doesn't matter how you arrange the points, you can always find a plane that runs through all three of them. It takes four points to get a shape that requires three dimensions.

Non circ’d father here, there’s a lot of good pros and cons here that are pretty pretty spot on. As a parent I considered the same when debating to circumcising my son when my spouse said she wanted done. Ultimately we didn’t after she mentioned an Ex of here’s had a botched circumcision and was healed improperly. I’ve never heard of that happening and went into a rabbit hole of looking it up. 

After I saw how the process was done I told my wife that no doctor is going to go near my newborns weenier with any of those items.

BLUF: look up how it’s done, and congrats on your baby Boy!! 🎉🎊

I imagine they're getting paid to perform the procedure, so it's like the car yard upselling you on fabric protection and window tinting.

Our doctor asked us either during labor or shortly after birth. 

Pros: 
-religious ritual for some.
-cultural norm in the US and some other countries (though it is becoming less common).
-there are some studies that indicate it *might* help prevent spread of some STIs and HPV.  Conflicting studies on both sides.
- easier to clean
-prevents possibility of some rare cases where the foreskin can become attached later in life.  This may resukt in the need for circumcision as a man later in life which is more painful.

Cons:
-almost always an elective procedure (not needed)
-reduces sensitivity by removing those nerve endings.
-done without the child's consent and no way to reverse later in life.
-will cause some pain for the baby for a couple of days (though they will not remember it).

I know people feel really passionate about the topic.  As a circumcised male, I have no ill will towards my parents for making that decision.  I have no memory of it, sex is still very pleasurable, and frankly I dont know life any other way. 

As a parent, I do regret having our son circumcised because it was a tough choice but we probably shouldn't have made that choice for him.  I will say, as we learned later he was Autistic, I think cleaning himself would have been an issue, so we are lucky to have avoided that...but we had no way of knowing he was autistic when we made that choice

It depends on your area, I declined it for my son and the provider said “good”

Complications from the procedure is at least as common as phimosis and should also be listed as a con.

Improved cleanliness is also a stretch, it is trivially easy to clean under your foreskin.

The only pro is if you develop a severe case of phimosis and have to have it addressed via surgery in adulthood, but that is very uncommon. Most cases of phimosis can be addressed by stretching the foreskin.

You assume the scoring system has remained consistent.

they said outer part, the vulva, jsut too amny people use vagina for that too

I’ve had more than one partner who had a lot of sensitivity difficulties and some pain as a result of their circumcisions.