well i just barley turned 18 and we were both in highschool

You asked that question knowing you might get an answer you didn't like, and now you have to live with that. Next time don't ask. Number of past partners doesn't devalue your romantic partner.

If he wanted to go, he shouldn't have knocked you up. Optional international travel right after baby and major surgery is extremely negligent.

His first, last, and only priority needs to be his wife and his baby, period.

When you say you can’t keep doing this do you mean that this kind of thing has happened before? Or can’t keep doing it within the context of this particular incident?

At any rate as for not letting things bottle up - unfortunately not everyone is good at that. Many men particularly don’t know how to communicate things when it comes to relationships and emotions and so say nothing. It’s far from idea but not uncommon and does not always reflect how much someone loves someone else.

I would only say yes, let him do if he hires a full-time nurse/nanny while he’s gone.

Yeah. Pretty sure she’d be flying(?) and wouldn’t even be allowed on the plane. Much less trying to get home while recovering and avoiding sickness with a newborn. …

I agree. As someone who would be totally fine with a prenup drafted in partnership with two attorneys, I think “prenup or no” falls under the same umbrella as “children or no”, “vegetarian household or no”, etc. in terms of compatibility. Rather than the “just explain it to her in a way that gets her to agree to it”, which we would find horrifying if applied to most other areas of compatibility, why not just be able to say “a person who believes in the value of a prenup is not compatible with a person who thinks that a prenup undermines the value of their relationship”?

And then what happened? You're not giving enough information to give advice

I'm a SAHM and therefore obviously and necessarily a big fan of community property. But IMO, the best and longest lasting marriages start out relatively young and poor (before fully established in life and career). Once you're older, established, wealthy, you become less flexible. When you're young and all you have is skin you're eager to throw it in the game but older people tend to get scared of doing so. Just something I've observed.

Then set a boundary/expectation. "When I'm working in my room, don't come in to talk. If you need me you can text me" or whatever works for you. Tell her exactly what you need. She isn't a mind reader

This tbh I agree. He wants out but doesn’t know how to do it. He tried in person and I would brace myself for Monday because he may be retreating to the safety of distance to try again to end things.

You'll have support. Let him go for 3 days. It's important day for him. You don't need exactly him these few days, and he'll be very grateful.

She doesnt like receiving oral

It’s not just about the car, but even when i am working in my room, she comes randomly and have some random conversation. For every 20 mins. I definitely know it’s like i am complaining. But i am just trying to understand myself why i am feeling like i am in need of my space? Is this something normal?

Go to school single, join a sorority, and have the time of your life.

Sounds like HE is getting help for you, which is great. Do you want HIS mom there?  

You clearly won’t be fully medically cleared. I think the question for your doctor is:  if complications were to occur post c-section, how likely would it occur during the timeframe he’d be gone?   So he leaves at 13 days after and would be gone for how many days?  Try to focus on facts and how likely it would be for a complication to occur during that time.

On what planet should the friend be on equal footing with his WIFE WHO WILL HAVE JUST HAD MAJOR SURGERY AND TWO CHILDREN?!?!? Clearly, you’re not married.

Girl you're already putting in way too much emotional labor for someone who clearly doesnt match your energy. The whole sorority thing is a massive red flag - getting mad that you want to join then getting mad that you wont join is classic manipulation bullshit. Hes making you the bad guy either way so he can stay in control of the situation.

  
And that boat situation with his friend making those comments while he just sits there and then tells YOU not to come if youre gonna be miserable. What the actual hell. A decent boyfriend would shut that crap down immediately or at minimum understand why youd feel uncomfortable. Instead hes basically choosing his asshole friend over your very reasonable feelings.

  
The fact that he keeps asking if you want to break up is him testing the waters because he wants out but wants you to be the one to pull the trigger. Hes being a coward about it and making you do all the emotional heavy lifting while he gets to play victim. You guys are 18 and about to start college - this relationship has run its course and hes already checked out mentally.

I have a feeling we’re sad for two very different reasons.

16 and 18 is not a weird gap.

One example was something happened in a group setting that made me upset shortly before we left. We got into the car together and I told him, "I'm feeling anxious right now about \_the thing that happened\_, , I don't need it fixed, I'm just sharing where I'm at", because I thought it was pretty evident that I was upset.

I agree. The idea of a 16 year old girl having a “body count” of 9 makes me sad too.

Dude this is pretty normal tbh - some people just need to fill silence and others prefer quiet moments. Your girlfriend might be one of those people who feels connected through constant little interactions while you recharge during quiet time

  
Maybe try having conversation about it when you're both relaxed at home? Like explain you love talking with her but sometimes you need few minutes to just zone out, especially in car rides. Most people understand this if you frame it right - it's not about her being annoying, just different communication needs.

damn the age gap here is weird too, like why you dating someone still in high school when you're adult already? she probably dealing with enough without having to defend herself about past stuff to older guy. maybe focus more in your own age range instead of judging teenage girl for her choices

He’ll be gone *overseas* not a few hour drive away. Post partum complications happen all the time. So do newborn complications. If he goes, he’s prioritizing his best friend over his child, AND his wife.

I agreed with you until the note about having the baby in Portugal 😂 lol what? I mean, sure anythings possible, but what a wild proposition

You don't expect to be able to watch something or have quiet time to think when she's in the car with you like that. You can't just ignore her. That's rude.

16 and 9 guys?? Thats not healthy.

Just because she won’t be alone, doesn’t mean the father of those kids shouldn’t also be there

The idea of a 16 year old girl catching shit for a “body count” makes me so fucking sad. 

I don’t even know how to advise on this, honestly, it just bums me out so deeply. She’s too young to be carrying this burden.

It sounds to me like she's collapsed sex with love and attraction. When you don't want her without the other stuff she's feeling not good enough.  
Yes everyone can tell you break up, it will get worse - But it depends - Are you looking for a solution?

Woman are emotional. We want connection. We want to feel wanted. 

Listen to some podcasts on intimacy and find that way to connect again.

I guarantee you it's not about the touching etc - It's about something much deeper.

Yeah, we were visiting for long weekends every 2-3 weeks, it's definitly been a shift. The pushback started before I moved, but has come up a lot more since we've been living together.

I have repeatedly said, I don't need any action, just being allowed to share is all the help I need, but noted.

Info: how many days will he be travelling altogether?

Thanks, that's my hope. I originally started working on it just for myself because I'm forgetful, but then saw others could value it for a lot of other things. My wife is all about acts of service and I'm not good at just thinking of those things. I'll look there I couldn't repost it but maybe can do a new post.

YOU are not the reason he’d miss this wedding. His *wife* having their *child* is the reason he’d miss it. No other support, hired or family, would compare to him being there when you’re at your most vulnerable. I’m not sure if this is your first c section, but I’ve had 3, and while each one gets easier, they still SUCK. The only other person I’d want for help is my mother, I’d rather do it on my own than have his mother there.

First off, you're not wrong. There is nothing wrong with feeling that way and, if you do, you need to make that very plain right now. 

Second, I'm going to go against the grain. We just had our second via scheduled C-section and we have a toddler. I love my birthday. If there had been a big important wedding two weeks after, around my birthday, I think I still would have encouraged him to go. I may have been a little sad, but not enough to stop it, and with the caveat that he make it up to me. 

You need to decide if that bothers you. And if it does, full stop, he doesn't go. Don't trap yourself with "I don't want to be the reason...etc" he's a big boy. Your needs are a good enough reason. If HE makes a choice to stay based on your (valid) needs, then that is now his problem, not yours. Do not let anyone make that your problem.

It's a very real possibility that you might not be able to physically lift your own baby after a C section for over 6 weeks, if you don't have any support outside of your husband in those first few critical weeks, I'd be very very concerned about being solo.

Yeah well, most guys **try** all the time, but most women just dont give a shit. Thats the tough truth. Lots of men are good guys, and are awkward because they've never been in a relationship before, and then they get made fun of or declined and then lose any hope til next time the cycle continues. Thats the truth.

His dad's behavior is unusual and off-putting. The fact that you were more concerned with feeling like a model than caring about your boyfriend's discomfort is also off-putting.

Is it possible that your boyfriend knows something about his dad that you do not? Can you acknowledge the possibility that you don't have all the facts? And do you have faith in your boyfriend to do what's best for you?

Yeah he sounds great oh wait no he sounds like an asshole, the fuck?

You're being selfish. Him being gone for your birthday isn't wrong, you just don't like it. How about you support him? You'll have family and a nurse supporting you.

Nothing strange thats how girls are

dude this actually sounds pretty cool. been single for while now but i've seen so many friends struggle with remembering little things about their partners or just getting stuck in routines. the love language part especially makes sense since people express affection so differently.

  
might be worth posting in r/dating or some relationship advice subs too since they probably have more couples actively looking for this kind of thing. good luck with the testing!

Your boyfriend isn't an "individualist" with "boundaries." He's a shitty, narcissistic asshole. You can do better. You DESERVE better.

I'm saying it like the advice you need to hear, not the fairy tale reassurance you want.

I’m stunned he is even considering this. 

His friend should understand that their decision to have a wedding in another country means there is a good chance there will be people who can’t make it. I’ve known people who have skipped in town weddings due to the recent birth of a family member.

He could participate in the wedding by Zoom as a compromise. We have a family member who did that when he was deployed during his sister’s wedding, and everyone is still speaking.

Prenup=planning for divorce.

I’m happily married, no prenup, and yes I make more money. I literally don’t even think of the money, typing this even feels weird. 

Or you can believe the divorced redditors that hate their  partner

Break up. This will not improve.

Red flag for sure. Especially with one of your other posts. Not looking good for her to be faithful long term partner to. 

I'd say that's fine and be calm as well. Stand your ground. I'd never marry anyone thats not willing to sign a pre-nup.

From reading OPs post I agree it's quite unclear. I suspect if OP makes an effort to give foreplay he will receive foreplay. Perhaps that's not the situation but that would be quite unusual.

Thank you so much this really helps ! 🫶

I don’t think you’re in the wrong. I’m a single woman and if I were ever looking at getting married I’d insist on a prenup. The older you are in life the more assets you have (well, usually) and a significant proportion of marriages end in divorce. A prenup just makes sure that you and your spouse get to say what will happen if you split up, instead of the courts doing it. I would say that you have to enlist her in drafting it, and you both need attorneys; otherwise, it will benefit one partner and not the other. Premarital counseling might help her come around. But if she doesn’t, and continues to insist on no prenup, I would rethink the wedding.

So he also raped you?

You HAVE to call the cops to get it on record. And you need to leave.

he "doesn't give a damn about others, only himself,"

just leave.

How do you share with him? What do you say?

You can't trust he will stop himself next time. 

You are now 750% more likely to be killed by him. 

Your risk is 750 times higher. 

You need to teach your children they cannot accept abuse and leaving, no matter how hard it is, is the ONLY way to keep yourself and your children safe. 

If you won't leave for yourself, do it for them. If you don't show them a healthy life, they will just follow what they know. And what they know is toxic and abusive. Show them something better.

This is absurd. How is he even considering this? It doesn’t matter if he has hired help for you. If something happens to you (and not to scare you, but many things can post c-section) he would need to be there to execute your medical wishes if you are unconscious. It’s a problem if he’s out of the country. Unless your mother has power of attorney for your medical decisions. 

JFC as a man I’m really getting tired of men not stepping up. It seems to have gotten worse over the decades, not better.

Four years long distance and then suddenly living together is huge adjustment. Maybe he's feeling overwhelmed by the shift from phone calls to daily emotional reality? 

  
You're not asking him to fix anything which is good, but some people just get uncomfortable when they can't "solve" the feelings being shared with them. Could be worth having conversation about what you both need when you're sharing vs when you need space to process alone.

That’s the thing I wouldn’t if it’s a past thing from the start of a relationship I think it’d just hurt me unnecessarily

Your bf's reaction is weird but also his dad literally directed you to drop your robe and walk around in a bikini while he photographed you - that's not normal behavior from a future father-in-law regardless of his photography background

Why on earth would you marry someone who insults you, talks down to you, and doesn't seem to have any respect for you?

Why are you engaged to this 🤡?

The rest of your life will be like this and WORSE.

Having just read the first post, from the perspective of a 36yr woman, I was RELIEVED to see that he's gone. You're barely starting your life and this person was not contributing to it positively. 

Enjoy your freedom! Treat yourself gently, this still sucks. Seek therapy or other guidance if you feel it will be helpful for you. Get some perspective from it. Learn some lessons. Then move on and live your life. It'll happen naturally with time 😊

That happened top my Mom too!  I was far away at the time, but it was scary.  Once my sibs knew what to watch for it didn't happen again.

Huh? What makes you think I’d want to have my child in Portugal when my entire care team (OBGYB, chiropractor, family, etc.) and support is right here? Are you suggesting I abandon my care team to have my child in Portugal so my husband can attend a wedding?

Please stop spamming this post. You have copied and pasted this all over this post. Are you the husband?

This is childish and L has been enabled by all of you guys.

Honestly, just call it out in the group chat. Say it's fucked, childish, and unkind. He doesn't have to accept your apology but he has a pattern of going on torture missions until he feels like people are appropriately punished and isolated and y'all just let it happen. That's weird. Call that out and stop doing it!!!

Yes, I agree those are different, I didn't make that clear.  I have doubts about how sometimes he makes me feel bad (even years ago) in ways I don't think other friends/partners would, communication with many instances of us discussing it and him agreeing to improve, and sex drive.

Why does he get a gun room, office, and garage and you get none? 

Tell him to move his guns into his office or garage. 

You get the old gun room and your new hobby room and you decorate with all the creepy dolls and teeth you want.

Oh man this guy sucks!

I bet that when you break up he is going to make a lot of noise like he is going to change. He wont change. Its not that he can never change, but people dont change that quickly. The only way he will actually change is if he realizes the consequences of his actions which can literally never happen as long as he is with you.

But also, youre 22, 4 years is a long time but the decades of life ahead of you are even longer and you definitely dont want to be stuck with such an inconsiderate asshole for that long.

What are the concerns around compatibility?

If this is the first and only person you've dated, it is human nature to wonder if there's more/better out there. Questioning that isn't a reliable indicator of whether you love or are in love with your partner. It just means you're experience normal FOMO that most people in your situation would.

Adding that this guy has also made her work life awkward because he felt entitled to shoot his shot without regard for how that impacts her having to clock in after that. Plus all the other work relationships where they’re all going out late outside of work.

Like you can argue that he’s got the right to say his piece but he also lives in a society and there are social consequences to doing so.

OP could also be an angry jealous type and retaliate against him and/or her. His actions didn’t happen in a vacuum.

I’m going to swoop in and give you permission to do it the wrong way if you have to. If doing it in person is too overwhelming, even though that’s not the ‘right’ way, you don’t have to always do everything the right way. You’re going to disappoint people in your life, it’s inevitable. And he’s going to be disappointed anyway, so what are you even preventing? Save your twenties.

Break up. You deserve better.

You will make mistakes and learn how to be a good partner through experiences. You may not be as good at it as you think you will be, I sure wasn’t when I started dating which was also much later than most. Try to start gaining experiences I’d say. Even if it’s not a full relationship. Practice communication and honest self disclosure

mit to ucla is brutal but if you're both actually planning post-grad moves around each other and have been making it work for years already, might as well see it through since you're halfway done anyway.

I understand your POV that sounds awful but just curious were you also reciprocating on foreplay because some women get very tired just giving giving giving and not receiving back. If you were then honestly that’s not something you can fix she’s just going to be like that, if you weren’t maybe you can talk about trying new things that will make both of you happy

Haha yes he's bringing the whole crew to make up for his absence which i think is a good sign that he's planning ahead this much

One of OP’s girlfriend’s concerns is that she wants to be friends with the guy. You can’t expect to be friends with someone who disrespects people you care about. Maybe he doesn’t want to be friends, but OP is worried about his relationship with his girlfriend, so her wanting to be friends with him is part of the issue at hand.

Please trust me on this because I went through something similar. As soon as he even mentioned breaking up and thought about it, he’s not actually in it anymore. He’s probably just staying where he’s comfortable. When my ex did that he’d go back and forth constantly until I completely lost trust in him and then he ended up leaving me in the worst way possible.

A middle-aged man dating a teenager is a predator. End of story.

Yeah they fucked each over 100% and not just once now the guy is getting feeling due to having sex with OPs girl now hard to see.

Really buried the lede by not answering this in the post.

Ever done couples or individual therapy?

After both of my C sections, I wasn’t allowed to lift anything heavier than the baby for six weeks. 

Her husband is nuts to consider this.

Well I think it’s simple but not simple at the same time to tell if someone loves you or loves being loved by you. What I mean by that is do they love you or they love the idea of you. It comes down to love, to have long term love is to have both love as a noun and a verb. Love as a noun is the feelings, the butterflies, the physical and emotional reaction. Love as verb is love as a conscious effort you make to show that love. For instance, love as a noun would be knowing your partner likes green tea. You know what brand and the way they like it. You know that when they get anxious or before bed they like a cup of tea. Loving as a verb would be extending that knowledge further. You make the cup of tea for them. It’s in their mug you see them usually use as it’s their favorite. It’s taking the seeing part of love where you know what your partner prefers and putting in the effort of action behind being seen.

You have already betrayed him no coming back bro

This is abuse. Adults should not throw tantrums. 

Please value yourself enough to see that you deserve better.

For context on the advice I’m going to give, I’m a very non-jealous person, I’m ambiamorous (happy either in a monogamous or polyamorous relationship), bisexual, and friends with exes.

I think that if you know someone is in a closed, committed relationship, and you get a crush on them, you keep your mouth shut and try to starve the crush. Confessing your feelings disrespects your crush’s relationship, and like, even if she reciprocated his feelings, what then? A relationship that began before a previous relationship ended is not going to work out. And a reciprocated confession might not be explicitly emotional affair territory, but it’s definitely not right.

Plus, dating your coworker is a bad idea, and shows bad judgment on his part, and she should have shut things down and told him that wasn’t cool, herself. It sounds like you’re the only one with a problem, here.

I, personally, would just stop dating someone so messy she’s staying out late with coworkers, crashing at their places, and entertaining a coworker’s crush instead of enforcing boundaries.

No, I wouldn't change my hair or anything else about my appearance for a partner. I wouldn't ask a partner to change their appearance, either. For me that would be fundamentally incompatible with how a healthy and mutually supportive relationship should work. 

You get to decide for yourself how you feel about the complicated intersections of race, hairstyle, and professional presentation. Your partner may be old enough to be your father but that doesn't mean he gets to talk to you or make decisions for you as if you're a child.

Girl, it’s hair. If you were dating someone your age they’d think it was cute but you’re dating someone’s lowkey misogynistic and controlling unc so it’s an issue. 

Sounds like you broke up for a good reason and should stay broken up. 

PS from someone who’s been there done that: relationships with older men only work when you’re in control and have them wrapped around your finger. It’s generally not something you should attempt until youre older.

Anyone who isn’t willing to sign a prenup isn’t qualified for marriage

You aren’t his Barbie doll. Why have you even entertained this up until now? My husband has no power over my appearance and he’s never wanted  to do that. 

You should always feel free to express your appearance how you want it. Tell him that this isn’t a discussion anymore. He can have a suggestion but he doesn’t not get control.

Yes I enjoy it with him and am extremely attracted to him but also I have a higher sex drive than him and that has been evident since the beginning :/

that sounds a bit strange; she wants you to want her, but only how she wants you to want her, and it better be vanilla as fuck, and you better like it... wouldn't sit right with me either.

Can't quite articulate it, but I feel like she's being a bit controlling, like she wants to control everything: what goes on, what you do, and what turns you on, and it's all one way, no negotiation.

You could run an experiment. Just flat out ask her why she suddenly changed her preferences and if she thinks you two are still compatible, because to you foreplay is important, and if it isn't important to her anymore, maybe your compatibility has changed. it doesn't have to mean you're ready to leave her; it's just to see how she answers.

I think it just boils down to sex to be honest. Do you want to fuck him?

Why do you want to spend your life, time, heart, and energy on someone you have to endlessly debate into treating you with kindness and respect?

This is unpopular, but I think he should go. You're going to have more than enough help and a wedding is an important milestone in a friend's life. Obviously, if you have complications, he shouldn't go. But you have more than enough time to plan for the help you need. Hell, you have enough time to plan to go with him, give birth in Portugal, and recover there if you want to. Having a child is momentous and important but so is a good friend's wedding.

I just wonder if people like Bill gates wife really make their own hair decisions? Like doesn't she know she iust can't come out wearing purple streaks or whatever?

I disagree with and have a different take than the others that commented so far.

In terms of the argument that he created two kids and needs to be there for them as well as watching them grow up, that's not just their first weeks of life, it's for at least the next 13 to 14 years.  There might be a time when the kids are teenagers that he can go on a trip with friends and not really miss anything in his kids' lives, but there is never going to be a good time for him to go throughout the kids' entire childhood.  That said, part of teaching a child about life is that sometimes their parent(s) will do something fun (or fulfill an obligation) for themselves, and short moments of a child growing up are missed.  It's not like any of you would have a different view about the OP's husband attending this wedding if the kids were older.

The mandatory parts of the wedding will probably be two days, with the majority of a day for travel in each direction.  Give it four days.  For four days, the OP's husband shouldn't have to choose, especially since the OP will have all the help she needs.  As long as the OP's husband goes for only the time he absolutely must be there for, I don't see why he should miss a special event when everything will be handled at home.  There is room for both the OP to have the help and support she needs and for her husband to be a good friend and not miss a super important event in his friend's life.  If someone keeps missing events, including important ones, they really aren't that great a friend.  Do all of you feel that friendships completely stop when you have kids?  If so, you aren't going to have any friends left.

OP, my advice is to compromise on him going for the bare minimum amount of time (the rehearsal and wedding, not any bachelor party or other leisure pursuits in Portugal) and making sure you have all the help he promised you.  If the wedding is October 10, he could leave on October 8 and return on October 11.  If the help he promised you isn't going to be enough for you, and someone else such as your own mom couldn't come and help, that would be a different story.  Would him missing his friend's wedding and being there be important enough to you even with you having other support if he goes?  How would you feel if the situation was reversed (you wanting to be a bridesmaid in a close friend's wedding and you'd have to leave your kids with your husband)?

I just wonder if people like Bill gates wife really make their own hair decisions? Like doesn't she know she iust can't come out wearing purple streaks or whatever?

Would you want to know if it was you? I feel like whatever it is that’s your best answer

I should add that he agreed to get a day nanny, night nurse + his mother to come and assist me while he is gone. I will have 24hr assistance and I will NOT be alone.

I'd take 3 women helping over 1 husband!!

Yeah, after my first long term relationship where I got oral for a minute or two everytime before sex I dated a girl who didn't give head at all.  I was completely lost in regards to how to even initiate sex or get myself fully ready.

It flustered me so much that I broke up with her because I felt like I was headed for some embarrassment on my part eventually. 

There is nothing wrong with you wanting a little affection/foreplay before sex.  If this is something she isn't into, this is a perfectly reasonable reason to break up.  I think we all know, it isn't going to get better with time.

the fact that he's trying to "take over" your hair decisions is a red flag regardless of what practical reasons he gives. you took a break to work on yourself and came back wanting to compromise but he's still pushing the same control issues

  
hair is personal expression and if you love braids thats your choice to make. the whole "maneuverability in society" thing sounds like an excuse when plenty of professional black women wear braids successfully. compromise should mean you both get input not him deciding everything for teh rest of your relationship

That why she will have 3 woman taking care of her for THREE days.

I should add that he agreed to get a day nanny, night nurse + his mother to come and assist me while he is gone. I will have 24hr assistance and I will NOT be alone.

I have lived this. It's kind of dehumanizing. It doesn't get better. I am married with kids so this is the way it is right now. You have options.

1.5 years and already bored and her not wanting to do anything but the deed. That’s not a good sign. 
The first thing you said as to why your relationship is good is nice apartment that’s a telling sign it’s not going well.

he agreed to get a day nanny, night nurse + his mother to come and assist 

OP won't have to lift a finger!

Sorry but your boyfriend sounds despicable. I really don't have anything else to pitch in. He simply sounds like a person who I personally wouldn't want near me. How can he be both kind and loving and "extremely individualistic" at the same time?! 

He gives you kindness and love as long as he stands to gain from it. As soon as he will see no value in keeping you around, he'll stop, because there's nothing to gain. Think on this a bit, maybe it'll help you make a choice. There's plenty of reasons why transactional relationships aren't working.

he agreed to get a day nanny, night nurse + his mother to come and assist 

I would take the help of 3 people over 1 husband!!

Well you've told her and she is not accepting reality so what else can you do?  
Have you thought about couple's counselling? Maybe a third party could help reach her.

this sounds exhausting ngl

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The above submission has been **removed** because:

 * It contains an external url.  URLs are not allowed on /r/relationships.  You must remove the url/link.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.
 * If you're creating an update, please follow the rules in our wiki and sidebar that describe how to submit updates.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to the content to ensure that the submission confirms to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Man she's setting you up for failure by asking those questions then getting mad at the answer. Like why even ask if you can't handle hearing "yes" about a celebrity? 

  
You're not wrong for finding other people attractive - that's just being human. But she's gotta work through her insecurity instead of making you lie to avoid her reactions.

Ask yourself these questions. 

1. was she "too" impressed that you had your own business when she met you?

 2. Do you feel like you could be doing more without her there?

3. Do you feel like she was trying to gaslight or guilt trip you about this prenup more than she was trying to have a logical discussion about it. 

If you answered yes too any of these then this "prenup issue" is actually a "show me the money" issue for her.

i see what ur saying, i get attached to people very easily, in fact i still think about my old bestfriends from 7th grade, its really hard to let go and i feel like if i tell M17 that i cant talk with him anymore and he really does try and off himself, i wont be able to stop thinking about him and stuff like that, because stuff like this affects my mental health, ive had other problems in the past few weeks were 2 of my friends tried to kill themselves at the same time which led me to harm myself because it was rlly overwhelming i just dont know what to do anymore

I had a C-section with a toddler at home. I would take a day nanny, night nurse and a MIL over one husband!! I am serious! That is more care from trained helpers than you'll get from one man. And suck it up for your birthday. You can celebrate a week later.

He'll be with you for the birth. Then he should go.

So why are you staying in this relationship?

You have to leave her. It will be better for the both of you. At first she will be devastated but eventually she will recover and be better. Leave her because you love her.

With BPD, you are her trigger. She's so terrified that you'll leave her that it she'll test you endlessly. Your reassurances will never be enough. You will never be able help her by offering your love and support, which will always be tested and doubted. You have to cut out the oxygen. 

Leave her respectfully but firmly. Block her on social media and do not contact her again for at least a year. Just tell a parent or something if you're concerned about suicide.

I went through this myself. Good luck

This is not going anywhere and you clearly aren't over him enough to be able to have a friendship or fwb situation with him in a way that's healthy for you.  You are going to need to go back to no contact until you're truly over him.

If they don’t wanna sit down and have a difficult conversation,then they ain’t the one

I understand the way you feel, but at the end of the day unless you know him in real life that could all be totally false. "He" is not necessarily even a real person expressing their true self.

Fwiw, when I was 14 many many years ago I broke up with the boy I was dating. He told me all the same stuff and seemed like he was crying. Then he told me he took a bunch of pills and I spent like 20 minutes freaking out before I told my mom who told my dad who called the cops. That kid was at home with his mom in the living room while him and two school buddies were playing video games in the basement. He was definitely depressed and liked me, but I was by no means his only reason to live. We both graduated high school at the same time and were friendly toward the end.

Red flag.  Rethink the marriage.

Exactly, that lingering judgment turns grabbing a casual beer into committing a tiny crime lmao. Hope your sister eases up on her views soon so your family hangs out peacefully again.

It's okay for her to prefer not to hear about who else you think is attractive. It's *not* okay for her to set tests and traps for you by asking if you find people attractive and then punishing you for answering truthfully. 

I'd suggest next time she asks one of these questions, telling her it doesn't feel like they're good for your relationship and you're not going to answer them anymore.

Just lie... everybody lies... it's fine. 

Just don't bring up the subject; if they do, just make up a story about a bland milk/toast relationship that ended because she got a scholarship in another country or a job opportunity across the country, etc. Whatever, just a possible excuse for why it ended on good terms; you can throw in a one or two nutty ones you had to leave because they were making bad decisions or didn't know how to communicate, etc.

At the end of the day, I usually wouldn't condone lying so easily, but this is a nothing burger, and if other people's shallow fears are stopping you from having a shot at love, just find a work around.

Although, I would point out that you aren't "old"... you're still very young, and there are plenty of people that don't date much, if any, into their mid-twenties. that being the case, I don't feel it would be difficult to find a woman who is okay with the lack of experience. just a thought.

If she's goading you by asking the question, that's on her. 

If she asks, just say "why do you ask?"

weird, but people change over years.

Tbh I call her she never picks up the phone
I send a text message she doesn’t answer.
I feel she doesn’t like me anymore.

i dont know him in real life no, i dont think he rlly used his mental health against me, however i dont want him to do die as he said i was the only one there for him, and his whole family hates him, and he does not have any friends, and i just want him to be okay

That’s where you’re messing up - you continue to tolerate this bs.

You need to listen to him when he tells you he feels entitled to treat you like crap because he enjoys doing so.  He has repeatedly told you this will continue and you continue to stick around for it.

He knows how awful it is to be around, which is why he freaks out at the tiniest taste of his own medicine.

He’s going to only be gone for 3 days as well. Seems like it’s fine if he goes tbh. 

This seems like a situation where the husband is doing the best he can to make op and his best friend happy.

I initially was going to say that most girls wouldn’t like it if you were just calling other women attractive but it seems like she’s just insecure. Talk to her, have a serious sit down conversation and ask why she’s bringing it up if it makes her upset. Then follow it by telling her how it makes you feel and then if she’s not upset thus far, you can maybe discuss how y’all will move forward and if she’s can’t drop this then maybe you’re not compatible. Coming from an insecure woman, if her insecurities are bad enough to come out like this, she might have self work to do before she can be emotionally stable in a relationship but that’s my opinion from what I’m seeing. Goodluck :)

You honestly need some therapy to figure out why you’re putting up with this. You complain that people underestimate you and yet you choose to stay with someone who does that.

No matter what happens, the choices of M17 aren't on you.

Someone who cares about you isn't going to use their mental health against you. Simply tell him you are no longer romantically interested and out of respect for your new relationship, you think it's best you don't talk for awhile.

Do you know M17 in real life at all? Or have any way of contacting other friends and loved ones? If so, if he threatens self harm save the messages and send them to his parents/friends/whoever. It's not your responsibility to do that, but it may make you feel better.

Yeah, if it was their firstborn, then he’d still be an arse for leaving that soon, but at least it should be manageable. But a toddler whose entire life has just changed, with a new sibling and new people around and a mummy who can’t pick them up? Dude needs to be there to provide stability for the older kid as much as anything.

Jesus fuck the self censorship is annoying, you can say bullshit

It's a trap question. "yes" and "no" are both wrong answers. Cause either way it means you have evaluated whether that woman is attractive to you, and your gf doesn't want to hear it.   
There is a right answer in there somewhere. Which is whatever reassurance your gh is hoping to hear from you. If she can be mature about it for a moment you can tell her honestly that these questions are confusing as hell and simply ask her what it is she would like to hear.

I think the dolls should live with the guns. It can be a shared hobbies room.

This is tough but actually pretty common around the 3 year mark. The initial chemical rush wears off and you start seeing if there's deeper compatibility underneath. Antidepressants definitely don't help with libido even if you've been on them the whole time - your body chemistry changes as you get older.

  
The fact that you're still attracted to other people means your drive is there, just not directed at him anymore. Sometimes you can work through it with new experiences together, changing up routines, or even just taking some space. But sometimes people just grow in different directions and thats nobody's fault.

  
Don't stay just because you'll "regret leaving" - you might regret staying in a relationship where the spark is gone even more. At 22 you've got plenty of time to figure this out.

Please note that extreme individualism here is just a euphemism for being selfish and egocentric. It isn't consistent, it's just a mental defence that kicks in any time he wants to justify avoiding things, being rude, etc. 

I have a massive dread that, in the future, his mother's philosophy will be used passive-aggressively against me as some kind of "unsolicited teaching" to try to mold me and erase who I am.

It's already started. He used it to justify snooping and weaponising that against you. In the end his anxieties are pretty generic, he is insecure and worries about you cheating or abandoning him, it's just the nonsense rhetoric he uses to vindicate being toxic is less common. But be aware that pressure is there and really the concern is that it will escalate [and it will]. 

End it, just say you have to do it for yourself and that's the sort of thing he ought to understand.

Yeah. For the right person, you can learn to live with a whole lot of annoyances. But you should be aligned in life goals and feel fully supported and cherished.

Your girl has some insecurities she needs to deal with, and you need to decide if you want to stick around while/if she does. If you stick around you need to cut it out cause she told you she doesn’t like it. If you want a girl you can check out other ladies with and her check out other dudes then break up with her and find one.

I hate to say it but this is a question you should have asked before moving in with him.

Why does he get the final say? What happens if you just... put your dolls up?

Tell him if he goes he should move there becuase he won’t have a home when he gets back.

It good that you’re aware that this is an issue but I would try to solve it before it becomes a problem in your relationship.

Imagine if your husband whom you have been rejecting “a lot” finds out you rather use a vibrator instead of sex with him. This is going to hit his self esteem hard and he may act out in unexpected ways and further damage the marriage.

You know what else is common sense? Taking care of your own laundry and not leaving it in your partner’s way for two weeks.

It was bad enough when it was the main issue of not being able to provide the emotional support and presence to help you through such a difficult moment.

Now he's compounded it by adding a broken promise and poor accountability on top of that. It's one thing to break a promise and go - oh shit I fucked up, I'm so sorry! But the lame excuse and attitude is a serious lack of accountability, care and consideration. 

I suspect this will ultimately hurt the trust and feeling of emotional safety between you two, OP.

I'm really sorry you have to go through. It's a different kind of vulnerability and aloneness having to go through scary medical stuff all alone while your partner is physically there but emotionally checked out when it matters most. I think Esther Perel describes it as ambiguous loss.

You and your baby are essentially having a major surgery, what if something happens? How will he feel?

I assure you all those people that saw him talking to you like a toddler were not thinking you were the problem.

OP, what's the plan? Going to every social event on your own. Because they "keep crossing boundaries" for him.

What next? You have a kid, the kid can't go to play dates coz other kids have "nothing to do with dad". This is ridiculous. Oh and also the distinct possibility to have to take a paternity test because that is well within his rights.

Ridiculous! Break it up girl.

Thank you it really is stressful and that’s what makes it worse i’m stressed about the appointment itself and dealing with emotions concerning him breaking promises. I just wish he would see how much it’s affecting me, i told him and he still just said he was trying to figure out how to go with me but he’s known for 6 months and promised me for all those months yet couldn’t figure it out?

Thank you so much for your insight! I am aware and heard a once or twice that sex is very important in a relationship but have never really got a better grasp on how it should be handled. Basing on what you said you definitely have a point. I think this is another thing I should ponder upon. Thank you so much!

Not true… It’s weird you think it’s okay to throw the word narcissistic around when you don’t know anything about someone personally. I am not triggered, it’s just weird.

Thank you, she passed away in October, unfortunately. She had to have dialysis for an acute kidney injury and it unfortunately didn’t agree with her and she was having a lot of issues from it, including a rare complication that caused calcium deposits to form in her breast tissue, which caused the blood to not be able to get through, which caused wounds that wouldn’t heal. Take care of your kidneys!

I had a c-section. You will NOT be remotely healed by the time he leaves. It will still hurt to sit up. You may still need help getting up and down— at least for me, it felt like my core muscles were just gone for at least a month, maybe two.

13 days after, you’re going to be moving slowly. A 5 minute walk may leave you aching, and you’re still not supposed to lift more than 10 lbs or so. You’ll still be needing to gently wash your scar and watch it for signs of infection.

It’s wild that you’re even asking if you’re wrong. Birthday aside, he needs to be there. I am so sorry he doesn’t see that.

Treat her with honesty, kindness, and respect. BPD can be debilitating for some. Encourage therapy, especially DBT therapy. She should also reach out to a psychiatrist to explore potential medication to help treat her.

Well guess what, that can be put into a prenup.

Yes, he's going to quit his job soon.

I appreciate the responses I’ve gotten so far. Even the brutal ones, lol

Obviously, I can’t give a detailed outline of the 20 years from when we first started having feelings for each other when we were only 13. We’d be here for years 😂

One thing to cover is, I never told him how I felt. It was kind of one of these unspoken things between us. Where we both knew, but we didn’t touch on it because it felt like we are crossing a boundary if that makes sense. We knew the feelings were there though. Neither one of us were dumb. Most people thought we were a couple when we were out in public with family since normally we acted like it. He randomly started acting distant when my brother questioned him more about me. If I had to guess, he told him to figure it out or leave me alone.

One thing I left out was when he told me how he couldn’t get over the little girl thing. He elaborated with how he thought about me in ways a guy shouldn’t if he didn’t have feelings. He said he knew there was love there for a long time he neglected. He told me he will live with regret the rest of his life knowing he lost the chance. I was blind sided and in a relationship with someone else. I think he was embarrassed and let that get in the way of actually pursuing me once he was honest and I was also with someone else. It’s complicated clearly. He was big on not crossing boundaries if he thought there was one. He wouldn’t go after me while I was with someone else because that’s a boundary.

You can think and say what you want. You don’t know my life or his. But in my opinion, it feels like he took the easy route and you just don’t get over feelings you have for someone that long, especially when you see each other several times a year and you can just feel it. And I feel really sorry for him that he just couldn’t be man enough to go for it. 

Thank you to the people who said this must be bittersweet. It is, but I’m also happy for him. I hope this is really what he wants and he lives happily ever after. I hope I am wrong for his sake since he is so integrated in my family and we will be apart of each others lives forever. I hope we both can move on.

The point of this post is that it’s such a weird situation to be in, unless you have been in it yourself.

Feels a lot more like it’s triggering you, since this is the only comment you’ve replied to.

I can't handle people that can't handle confrontation. Conflict is an essential ingredient of a relationship, i let people know i think that early, and my relationships with avoidants have never worked out.

So why stay with him?

Is his business actually making any money or progress?

I get lost at your meaning right until the second comma. I think I grok the rest, but not so sure

You can give her all the reassurance, I mean you should, she's your girlfriend. You should give her compliments, show her that you find her attractive with words and actions.   
But also it's probably something she should work on herself, maybe with a professional. Or if she's genuinely underweight that's a real health concern. You can't fix all her body image issues for her.

This is what my Trusts and Estates professor said when we discussed prenups in law school. Same as a will.

As others have stated this is in no way your fault and (don’t take this the wrong way) really has nothing to do with you. As in you are not cause or factor. You can do everything right and supply all the support in the world and the BPD will distort it. She needs professional help. I am currently in remission from treatment resistant depression and am still battling obsessive compulsive personality disorder. I used to self harm, it does not stop with one cut. It is addictive as hell. She needs professional help now. I understand the struggle to find therapy- I’m in the US, pay $800 a month in  health insurance and still had to go outside my provider and pay out of pocket to get the therapy I needed. BPD is complicated and messy and can mercilessly destroy the afflicted and those around them without intervention. You seem like a really good person and I wish you luck with all my heart but you do not have an easy road ahead.

That's nice and all but he still shouldn't even be considering going. His top priority should be Wife and kids. When an important optional event ie his best friend's wedding conflicts with taking care of his wife and child at a time whent they need it most especially after a major medical procedure it shouldn't even be a question in his mind to decline the groomsman position and miss the wedding. Part of having kids is sacrificing things you want to do sometimes and it sucks but that is life.

Hopefully the groom will understand.If he isn't then he isn't a real friend. Most people know when they have destination wedding not everyone will be able to attend. Especially guests with small childern and pregnant with another child.

If you don't care at all and are sure you won't resent him for leaving you at your most vulnerable, emotional, exhausted and unable to care for yourself, toddler, and newborn, the by all means let him go.

He'll find out, and he will. No way he wont. Your old bf could tell him at any time. Friends, drunk confession slip, moms screw up all the time, whatever, Reddit is full of these stories. They devastate.Tell him or be ready to lie  your ass off when he confronts you.

If you will have 24/7 care, maybe? But with the understanding this is a massive favor to him AND you a return gesture on something big and important to you in the future.

He doesn’t respect you. He prolly doesn’t even like you. It’s hurtful, but people don’t treat people they respect or like this way.

I had a c section and couldn’t even get up properly and was still taking Percocet 2 weeks after the surgery. He can stay home and help.

Plus, wtf ? He’s going to bring all those germs from the plane to your newborn baby

I have talked to him and told him how that behavior is super off-putting and how it puts me in a bad mood being around it. He claims that since he’s not angry at something I necessarily did, something he’s just upset about, that he has a right to be angry. I agree, everyone is entitled to their own emotions. But as soon as that anger gets directed towards me (slamming things, acting pissy with me, acting cold and shut down) it puts me in a mood, as it would anyone. He doesn’t get that, only when I then have an attitude or am grumpy then he can be patient with me for one second. I am extremely patient with him as well.

I mean, if it’s really that important to him, and you’d have 24 hour care/help that’s acceptable to you, AND he buys travel insurance and agrees to cancel if something unexpected comes up (ie one of you have to be readmitted or something), and he goes for the shortest time possible, I’d probably agree to it. I’d also insist on an overnight away by yourself after baby is a few months old in return 😂

“Since then he hasn’t done anything like this but I’m still hurt and really want an apology and feel like without it I don’t have the ability to work through this. What are y’all’s opinions?”

Are you with him right now? Because if you are you are saying one thing and doing another thing…

Your words and actions don’t align…

What will an apology do?  How do you know he will mean it?  What will those words do or change?

In addition to what everyone said that he absolutely should not leave you alone that soon, I just want to add that I also think it’s crazy to spend that kind of money when you have a new baby to care for. It shouldn’t even be a consideration for both those reasons, IMO, unless you happen to be wealthy.

How on earth did this guy convince you to marry him

When he’s in a bad mood, he’s allowed to express himself, get angry, slam doors, be cold and distant towards me.

He’s “allowed to” because you put up with his behaviour without consequences. If you don’t want him to behave like this, then stop putting up with it. 

If you don’t want a partner who behaves like this, then don’t stay in a relationship with him.

I like what you said. This is true no matter what. We grow and change with age and experience sometimes that brings us together and sometimes it tears us apart. For myself as I became a better person (along with other factors) my ex became more unhappy with our relationship. Some of the very things that anyone would say "yeah that should have made you a better partner" actually worked against the relationship. She changed in other ways that didn't work for me... there was nothing terribly dramatic..just as they say grew apart (and yes all the usual stressors)

Yes! They explained that too and I had so many questions because it was so random, but they were patient with me. Definitely also worth looking into. Thankfully in my mom’s situation it wasn’t that complicated. A lot of saline and she was good to go.

Nah you're not overreacting at all - he literally promised you without being asked and then didn't follow through when it mattered most 💀 The timing is what gets me too, like he had time to plan around a party but couldn't figure out coverage for something this serious? That's rough especially when you're dealing with potential health issues that scary

  
Going through medical stuff alone is terrifying and he knew that from your first experience, so making that promise and then backing out feels pretty shitty. You've been there for his personal stuff so expecting him to keep his word on something this important isn't too much to ask 😂 

  
Hope everything turns out okay with your health situation though, that's gotta be so stressful to deal with

man this is tough because she's basically stuck in her own head right now. when someone's that deep in their insecurities, your words just bounce off no matter how genuine they are. she's convinced you're just saying nice things because you have to.

  
instead of just telling her she's beautiful (which she won't believe anyway), try being more specific about what you actually like. not just "you're pretty" but like mentioning how you love the way she laughs or how her long legs look in certain outfits. concrete details hit different than generic compliments.

  
also maybe suggest she talks to someone professional about this stuff. body image issues this intense usually need more help than a boyfriend can provide, no matter how supportive you are. you can be there for her but you can't fix this on your own.

Yeah there's not much you can do if he won't acknowledge the problem.  
And I've honestly been there where he is (to a lesser extreme). But early in our relationship my wife pointed out that I had this condescending way of talking to her sometimes, and she's absolutely right, I have this know-it-all tendency that's really annoying and disrespectful.  

We've had more talks about it because old habits die hard, but I'm more aware of it now and catch myself a lot before I start treating her like she's incompetent. And that's nothing to do with her, it's me needing to be the smartest guy in the room for reasons I won't get into.    
Now I get it out of my system by being a know-it-all on reddit instead.   
Gotta at least make some effort. She has her issues too that we've talked about and she's honestly working on them. That's how it should be.

If he really wanted to go to the wedding he could’ve done the math and used protection.

Girl, he doesn’t like you!

Exactly this. He cannot go to this wedding.

You need to leave. Now. Go file a police report and stay in a hotel. Put it on a credit card, but get the hell away from him. If you have doubts, please understand that your teenager is not safe nor is your toddler.

This isn't a communication issue. He understands what you think. It's a respect issue. And that's why his behavior doesn't change. He feels he is correct in how he treats you.

Fyi IANAL but have experience in these areas (divorce and owning businsses). The legal entity my have its own structure -- but if you wholely own it and it is split 50 50 and your ex decides to sell their 50....or depending on various factors can force you to get it appraised and cough up the value....or because it can't be sold in part may force you to sell the whole thing. Without a prenup even organizing it gets super messy.

He should absolutely miss the wedding for sure.

Don't marry the know it all with a bad temper. Those qualities should both be deal breakers in a relationship.

Couldn’t have said it better myself

He’s been talking to me like this off and on for years.. Ivehad so many talks with him, I’ve yelled at him over it, asked to be treated with respect. He talks down to be condescendingly, but he says he’s just making sure I knew things that are literally common sense… I find that disrespectful. I honestly feel like he doesn’t trust my judgement in most scenarios- even things as simple as laundry, cooking, etc

Ummm NOR - you aren’t even technically supposed to drive for 14 days. Not to mention you will have a toddler AND a newborn so basically one of them will always need your attention and you’ll be sleep deprived. Tbh i wouldn’t care if it was his brother getting married it would still be a hard no from me.

“** I should add that he agreed to get a day nanny, night nurse + his mother to come and assist me while he is gone. I will have 24hr assistance and I will NOT be alone.”

Did this trigger something for you? Lol

I feel the same way.

I’d love my husband to go and have fun… I won’t be alone at all….

Plus, before he leaves, I’d remind him that I would want the same amount of time to do a girl’s trip or several trips that add to the same amount of time…

I know I’d need those trips sooner or later!!

He may not have it in him. Or he's worried about overstepping. Talking about it is your best option. Outside of the act. If talking about sex is an issue, then why are you having sex?

whats your relationship expected to look like going forward? Are you expecting her to be a SAHM with kids doing labour for you while getting nothing cause you prenup'd your assets?

I’m not even ready the body of the post. He is wrong. You are not wrong. He should not go anywhere internationally. You need physical, psychological, emotional, physiological help to survive. He does not need to go anywhere. He needs to stay home.

I'd be asking myself if I want to enter a marriage with someone who acts like they hate me

You shouldn’t have to be the reason he misses his friend’s wedding. He shouldn’t want to miss out on his child’s first weeks of life. They grow up so fast. You never get that time back. And the earlier it is, the more crucial the bonding.

“I have to be there for my baby in their first weeks of life” You don’t even have to factor in. But “and I want to support my wife after she gave birth AND had major surgery” is also a very good reason to stay home.

It sucks to miss out, but your pregnancy and relative due date were things your husband needed to plan around since he learned that you were pregnant and his close friend should be aware of your pregnancy and relative due date and if he wanted your husband at his wedding, he shouldn’t have planned it so close to when your baby would be born.

You can’t change the dates around your pregnancy. He could change the date of his wedding, and if he doesn’t want to do that, he should understand that it’s a crazy ask.

Why are you engaged to someone you don't like?

Thinking you are being poisoned is very common with elderly people. His sense of taste has changed and things taste bitter to him. Bitter = poison. 

Being diabetic puts a layer of difficulty on this situation since the remedy is to let them eat sweets like milkshakes with protein powder.

You say you've repeatedly asked him to stop talking down to you, stop being mean, stop treating you like you're dumb, etc.

His answer is no.

This isn't going to stop.  He will not stop treating you poorly and throwing temper tantrums.

If you do not want this to be your life, make other plans.

He has a gun room but you can't display your dolls or leave mirrors uncovered? What the actual fuck.  This is your space too and you should get to display your things.

Do you really want to spend the rest of your life being treated like that? I feel like you know what people are going to tell you when you post this here.

I mean, if you want to salvage things I would a least suggest not getting married soon. Tell him he needs to demonstrate that he can treat you properly before you plan a date. But even then I would be worried that someone holds back until later and then it comes out again when it's harder to leave. 

No one here can tell you whether or not this treatment is worth it for you. Being treated like an intelligent, equal partner feels pretty fundamental though.

I think you can say "sorry for shrinking your shirt". I mean it was an honest mistake, but you did.  But he very much owes you an apology for acting like a giant asshole.   

The way he's talking to you has a lot contempt behind it. It's not about the shirt. The shirt is an excuse for unloading whatever shit he has pent up on you, and that's not fair at all.

I’d be so happy I had a serious excuse to not go.

“** I should add that he agreed to get a day nanny, night nurse + his mother to come and assist me while he is gone. I will have 24hr assistance and I will NOT be alone.”

He’s marrying someone else. The idea that he has feelings for you and “always will” is pretty narcissistic. He never liked you enough to make a move. You aren’t some lost love that he will always be dreaming of. 

This says a lot more about you than him. You’re the one that isn’t able to let go and move on.

So she didn’t accept your friend request. And she’s been in to your work place multiple times and never made an attempt to say hi to you. 

You shot your shot and it didn’t go the way you wanted bro.

You can def try to send the request and if she doesn't accept, that's it, you have your answer and you can move on not wondering "what if"

kind of wondering why you rescinded the request to begin with, because to me that would be a tiny little yellow flag on your stability/consistency. 

If she doesn't accept right away, whatever you do, don't rescind again, even if you feel somehow rejected in that moment. Doing it once is slightly weird, twice and she's def going to think that's a bit unhinged.

It's entirely possible in this situation shooting your shot works though

Exactly.

It's not difficult to acknowledge how offensive it can be to someone who means it, and expects their partner to mean it too, to be talking about "exit plan", while also acknowledging the reality that, statistically speaking, there's a non-trivial chance that the marriage end in a divorce.

Get out. With your kids.

wow this guy leaves his laundry in the machines for TWO WEEKS and then has the audacity to blame you when his shirt shrinks? nah thats peak entitlement right there

  
you dont owe him an apology at all - he created this whole mess by being lazy about his own responsibilities then had the nerve to lecture you about laundry basics when youve literally been doing it for years. the double standard with emotions is a huge red flag too, like he can slam doors when hes upset but you cant even have a mood without getting shut down

Maybe he doesn't have it in him. Turn the tables and take control. 

I'm very loving and sweet mannered. My partner knows how to push the buttons though. We have long-established safe words. She'll trigger me into bear mode but I generally know when it gets to be too much. Not always though. I trust her to let me know.

Once you open the bag of consent, clear communication is vital.

wait you collect teeth and he draws the line at dolls? that's wild lol

  
but for real you need some kind of compromise here because keeping all your stuff boxed up forever isnt sustainable. maybe you could claim half the office or set up a corner somewhere thats just yours. three years of storage room living for your collections is pretty rough and you should definitely be able to have some of your personality showing in the place you both pay for

Fuck this dude....figuratively, not literally. When he is done fucking off he can turn left and fuck off some more.

Run dude. Don't get involved with someone with BPD. Get out now.

I kind of want to but I'm worried he won't make the time

i'm sorry to hear that you're feeling unhappy in your relationship. i know it can be really hard to end things, especially when it's your first relationship. just remember that it's okay to put your own needs and happiness first. You deserve to be in a relationship where you feel loved and fulfilled. You got this.

that's a really tough situation to be in. i can't imagine how complicated and bittersweet your feelings must be right now, seeing him marry someone else. You are not alone
This feels personal. I'd love to hear more about your story and how you're doing. Sending you a virtual hug. You are stronger than you think.

that sounds really tough, especially after being together for so long. it's good that you're both trying to work through it though.

Can you see a counselor? I know it's recommended like crazy around reddit, but from personal experience, a good couples counselor is worth their weight in gold. We had an absolutely brutal window in our relationship, a few months after our second child was born. We were both struggling with the change in our lives, our mental health, and I had just also gone through the loss of a parent (due to abuse, I cut her off, not due to death. However, processing it has still been brutal). 

We knew we wanted our relationship to work, so we saw a counselor, and worked on it together. She was able to help us get on the same page again, help sort through some ongoing conflicts, and provide alternate perspectives on things we each struggled with. 

You **both** have to be ready to work on it, but if you are, counseling is a huge help.

Men like your husband are one prime reason the women are refusing to have children. Please realise that it’s shitty of him to even put you in this position when you are already vulnerable. Either he is thoughtless or he is a voluntary moron who doesn’t hesitate to put you and your children second. Either way, please reassess your situation.

this seems like a pretty tricky situation since he's clearly feeling left out but also can't afford to join. being together for a year and a half while you maintain this close tradition with your ex and her family probably feels weird for him, even if everything is totally platonic. i get that you've been doing this trip way longer than you've been with him, but from his perspective he's watching his girlfriend go on a two-week vacation with an ex while he stays home because of money.

  
maybe see if there's a way to include him somehow - could he join for just part of the trip to make it more affordable? or maybe plan a separate smaller trip with just you two around the same time so he doesn't feel completely left out. the financial thing might be the surface issue but underneath he's probably struggling with the whole dynamic of you being so close with your ex's family while he's on the outside looking in.

You need to let the idea of this man go.  If he wanted to, he would’ve 1 million times before now.  Unfortunately, you leaving this lingering in your mind is keeping that position closed for any other person.  He doesn’t want to be with you.  I am not saying that to be hurtful but to hopefully encourage you to move on.  

Sending you good thoughts, your Mr. Right is out there, Jeremy is for sure Mr. Not Right.

I think with all your supports in place you will be okay. He will appreciate you supporting him. It’s not ideal of course but it’s not like either of you planned the conflict.

Avoid anyone with BPD who hasn't had therapy/DBT and is actually in remission. They will ruin your life

She's got to keep looking. Dating someone with untreated BPD is a super high difficulty level for relationships. I know you don't want to leave her but know that it could take years of therapy for her to be stable.

Why do you need to do anything? Let him feel his feelings.

It's also messed up that the 'solution' is just to demand 24/7 unpaid labor from other female family members because the man may get too resentful if he has to skip something fun and actually provide care.

Total mystery why birth rates are declining, isn't it?

He's a completely different life in another thread. 

It's a fucking clanker lads.

Yeah, I totally ignored the red flags and was hooked to the part where he was good. I'm in therapy now and turned towards the almighty.

it feels like you're misrepresenting that situation because otherwise the girl in that situation would leave early on

The law in many areas is wildly unfair and not remotely even. 

Prenups are only enforceable if they're equally protective of both parties. A prenup of "I don't wanna give you money, nyehhh" gets thrown out. You might actually learn how they work before trying to rip them down.

He said he was pushing me to become a better person and I took his words seriously 😬 especially cuz he was 35 and an MA in psychology

No having a prenup is stupid.

Unpopular opinion but I think he should go especially if you're going to have a lot of help while he's gone. However he would need to come back soon, maybe within 3-5 days? And not like a 1-2 week trip lol

Can you print out aftercare instructions including physical limitations post c-section? Have him read through everything. Have him read this post. 
He should absolutely be home with you and your family - that he helped create - to support you post surgery. 

He can miss the wedding.

This behavior could’ve literally killed you both. It is not normal. Keep a good amount of space for your own safety. 

Signed someone with two siblings

man this visa situation sounds like nightmare. two years of work and she's blaming you for not giving clear instructions when you literally gave her bullet points months ago? that's rough timing with your birthday tomorrow too.

  
the silent treatment for weeks thing really stands out - that's not just avoiding confrontation, that's basically emotional withdrawal. you can't really force someone to communicate who's decided they won't, but maybe try writing things down instead of verbal conversations? some people process written stuff better when they're defensive about talking.

I disagree with this open relationship suggestion. OP and his gf seem to be strictly exclusive and have no thought of having a third party involved. Plus open relationships doesn't seem the healthiest option, it'll be better to just end the relationship due to incompatibility about sex. OP's gf has told that she isn't interested in sex from the start so the expectations was set but OP has want to have that. As simple as that, even though they love each other clearly but if not both partners' needs are met, the relationship will not be a great one in the long run.

People underestimate how major a surgery a c section is - it’s not like a zipper

Right if someone had a 7 pound non cancerous mass removed from their abdomen everyone would expect them to need a lot of support and rest so they can recover, but since the mass is a baby somehow women should be just fine and bounce back easily with taking care of a newborn.

Should boyfriends/girlfriends also be entitled to half the salary of their partner once they break up? Same logic.

Absolutely not wrong at all.

No, living with it isn't valid, healthy, or okay

My baby was still in the NICU at 13 days. Think about how you'd feel if that was the case here. I think he should stay.

I don't even need to read your post. The title is enough information - he absolutely needs to be with you for so many important reasons.

Not wrong.  You absolutely won't be recovered enough to handle things on your own.

it kind of seems more like he flirted with the idea of hooking up with you while drunk because he knew you liked him and would probably go for it. sounds like he mostly just enjoyed the attention you gave him. his behaviour considering he more than likely knew how you felt is pretty lame…but now you don’t have to live in the ‘what if’ and can move on and hopefully find somebody who never makes you doubt if you’re wanted.

This!

He and his individuality must be respected at all times.

Yours?  Only so far as it agrees with his.

OP, he's a hypocrite.  If he did truly believe in individualism, he wouldn't care what you do with your snack or socialization.  They're *your* expression of *your* individual desires, right?

But no.

He's just using it to be a control freak.

Break up.

Crazy that he's even considering it, but some men just don't prioritize their wife and kids

If he committed to being in the wedding, he should be in the wedding. 

Your edit says you will have plenty of help for the few days he’s gone.

What sort of future do you think you’ll have with someone who “doesn’t give a damn about others, only himself?” I’m sure raising children would be awesome. 🙄

Give a damn about yourself and gtf away from this asshole. If he wants to be an individual, let him. He can pull himself up by his bootstraps cuz you’re way too young for this nonsense and you deserve so much more. 

Side note - if he’s snooping thru your laptop, he’s not individualistic, he’s controlling and wants you to walk on eggshells n beg for scraps of attention. He doesn’t want to be isolated, he wants to isolate YOU. 

Hugs from your internet auntie. 🫶🏻

That toddler won’t take well to this. Suddenly a new sibling and daddy leaves and new people come in?!  Good heavens.

He sounds really immature, I don't think your relationship gets any better unless he really commits to changing how he behaves. You probably know the answer to that, he may be able to be on his best behaviour for a little while. But he will likely revert to old behaviours when he feels you are comfortable with him again

I mean what if she was boasting and trying to bring OP down? Certainly sounds feasible given the context.

Op, dont let one bad date effect you for years. People out there vary A LOT.

He shouldn’t even be considering going.

No she is not in therapy right now I told her I really want her to go but it’s hard to find a therapist these days 😢

Am I wrong for not wanting my husband to go to an international wedding 13 days after my C-section?

No, he should not even be considering going. PS I just showed my husband your post (we have 3 kids born via c-section) and he said he would fully expect to be served with divorce papers upon return, but he would never be dumb enough to leave his 13 day post partum wife to go a friend's wedding.

<But I can’t shake the feeling that being home alone with a newborn, recovering from major abdominal surgery, while my husband is across the ocean for my birthday weekend feels wrong.

It feels wrong because it is wrong.

<Part of me feels guilty because I don’t want to be the reason he misses such an important event. Another part of me feels like the first two weeks after a C-section and with a newborn are exactly when a spouse should be home.

You are not the reason he has to miss this event. His family needs him and his obligation to the family he helped create comes before anything and everything else.

<My husband is trying to decide now because the groom needs an answer.

The answer should have been a hard "NO" immediately and he should not need to even think about it.

I’m appalled you even need to ask. He should want to be home with you at such a vulnerable time. It is a major abdominal surgery. You need to rest and recover. It’s one thing to have a newborn but totally different to also have a toddler. They will also become more emotionally needy seeing the baby get so much attention. This truly isn’t even just about you, it’s your family unit. Sure you will have help but dad is much better suited than anyone else. 

It’s just a wedding. I’m sorry but it’s one day. People can’t expect everyone around them to drop their lives for a wedding

He will be gone for 3 days total.

That’s the thing I have really grow and don’t know about bringing back something from when I was a terrible person

im w you on. it will be a week and half AFTER her Csection and help will be available 24/7

It is not your fault she self harmed. She chose to do it. Is she in treatment for her mental health issues? Because she will not get better without the help of professionals. There isn't anything you can do other then encourage her to get into treatment and stay in it.

He should go. You will be fine. How many days is it?

I think you’re not wrong but if you would allow him this concession he may make it up to you tenfold when he returns. He still wants to go obviously so if you don’t “allow” him he may hold resentment. I would tell him not to go if that means leaving you alone but if your mom or someone close can stay with you while he’s away that changes things. Also, if he does go it should be “arrive the day of wedding and leave right after”. 

Everybody on Reddit will disagree with me because they just see a person leaving a new mother. But you are his partner, you love him and you probably know how much this means to him. Relationships are about give and take. Go with your gut. He’s probably going to get his balls busted at the wedding when they find out he left for the wedding but that’s his problem and he’s going to owe you big time !

hes providing with extra help and care, you will be fine and can always make up your bday when he comes back. this is kinda once in a lifetime opportunity.

Her selling photos is an economic issue.  If she had a job and financial independence, she would not need to sell photos to have her own money.

According to OP, girlfriend is financially tied to his family which is an inherently dangerous situation for a woman to be in.  If girlfriend could find entry level work (which OP says she can't because of 40% unemployment)while she was at uni, it would pay $1 per hour.  Compare that to $100 per photo.  It's a no-brainer

I'm 42 and divorced and my divorce went fine and i still encourage prenups if there's anything (assets, children, businesses) that predates the marriage.

So, six months. Go to school. I can't imagine dating someone for six months and telling them I need to be impregnated in three years and I'm going to be a stay at home mom. She has a lot of nerve. 

Have you ever heard "a nurse with a purse"?  It doesn't just apply to older nurses. Wish you the best of luck in your career and yes your caution is warranted.

My buddy joined his best friend's wedding (friends since 7 years old and bro was 40 when married)  via video chat because his mom is old and in very fragile health.  He would only need to be gone 3-4 days and he has never risked it, and likely will not travel more than an hour or two away until after his mom is gone.

Unless the c-section date is somewhat arbitrary and can be moved a couple of weeks for some reason... but no. This is still NOR.

Um he needs to cancel that’s insane he even would agree to go. I don’t care who he would hire the right answer is him be there for his wife and children. I would be hurt if he had to think about that.

I guess I’m in the minority but I would absolutely have my husband go as long as I had somebody to help me 24 hours. I’d just have him make it as a quick a turnaround as possible to be back home. I’m having my second c-section and third baby sometime in October and I would have him go.

She won’t have to, he’d be getting a day nanny, night nurse, and his mom to help while he’s gone. She wouldn’t be by herself. 

But he still needs to be there, it’s crazy to leave for an international wedding that soon after the birth of your child. Especially considering the circumstances.

Insecurity isn't the only reason someone would be dead set against a prenup.

Yes. I realized my expectations were through the roof and that asking anyone to fill those shoes is a lot to ask for. I realized that, even though my boyfriend doesn’t meet ALL of my wants and WILL disappoint me, that I’m lucky to have him… I had been expecting him to fill shoes too big for anyone and he never expected that from me: he excepted me as I was. Huge awakening for me. I’ve been reading the “Let Them Theory” by Mel Robbins and it really points to letting go of controlling other people. Don’t be afraid of breaking his heart, he ALSO deserves to be with someone who loves him for exactly he is. And you deserve to be with someone who does the same for you. Ultimately, this is your decision, but don’t expect him to change and don’t force him to (it won’t work anyways).

He shouldn't even be considering going. You're not the reason. His 2 children that he created are. This is absurd. He's gonna leave you alone with a newborn and toddler immediately after major abdominal surgery? What is wrong with him? You won't even be able to pick up your toddler.

You absolutely should not move in with your mom. And the key is to stop hesitating and just say no. “Sorry I’ve been so wishywashy mom, but I will not be moving in with you. It doesn’t suit my life right now. I hope you find a great place to live that makes you happy” 

If you have access to a therapist, you should talk to one.

You can argue that she wouldn’t care about a prenup if she thought it was going to last forever, and you’re just protecting your assets. Dump her. Millions of men have been completely screwed over in divorce court.

Girl you've already hurt him whether he knows or not. If you dont want to lose the relationship, dont tell him. If you want to clear your conscience, tell him. Both cases are lose-lose for him. In the forst one he remains with the person who cheated on him (but doesnt know), in the other case he finds out the cruel truth (but leaves the person that cheated on him). So at this point just focus on whats best for you.

If she gives birth numerous weeks early, baby is likely to be in nicu before coming home.

Leaving her alone with a premie and a toddler is not a compromise.

People underestimate how major a surgery a c section is - it’s not like a zipper.

His wife and his kids are his family.  The family support should be coming from the person who made the family.

I would be absolutely furious if my husband was "trying to decide" whether to leave me alone with a toddler and a newborn *days* after being cut open during major abdominal surgery. And anyone who gives him a hard time about this probably needs to be cut off, too. He needs to put his family first and it's incredibly offensive that he's not immediately realizing this.

I mean, OP isn't obligated to do anything, but it would change the situation considerations if she had a serious reason for wanting her to move in (like finances or needing care)- but it sounds like she's just lonely...

Oh absolutely not. You and the baby are so much more important than his friend. This is unfortunate timing for the wedding, being so close to the baby’s birthday but that’s just too bad. You have no idea the temperament of your baby, or of how your healing will go. You also have no idea how your toddler will handle the new baby. You literally won’t be able to lift anything for weeks, and he wants to leave you ALONE??? No. He misses the wedding.

I have two kids, both delivered via c section. This guy is crazy to even consider this. It’s major abdominal surgery with the added difficulty of a new born and a toddler.

That still isn’t a reason to move in with her tbh.

Yeah, he clearly wasn't ready to start something new. Now he's trying to close that chapter while he's still with you. Or he's trying to reopen.

Dad being out of the picture would actually explain a lot. She might be feeling lonely or worried about finances but not wanting to admit it directly. The whole "only family will really be there for you" thing definitely sounds like someone who's been let down before.

  
But that doesnt mean you should sacrifice your independence to fix her situation. You're 22 - this is exactly when you should be figuring out your own living situation and what you want. The guilt trips and showing up at your boyfriend's place if you dont answer? That crosses a line.

  
Trust your gut on this one. If moving in with her feels wrong for you right now, thats a valid reason not to do it.

Wow, international?  My ex went to Myrtle Beach a week or two after our 3rd was born and had I broken my tailbone during childbirth.  He was not my husband for much longer, lol.

Not 13 weeks. He wants to go at 13 DAYS! It’s outrageous.

In a divorce, you have half of everything that’s his. If you have a job, you have income. Income will get you a car and an apt. If you don’t have a job, get a divorce and ask for child support and alimony.

There is also government aid. Look up domestic violence hotlines or help in your area. They should be able to point you towards your local resources. Idk where you live, but generally there is AT LEAST shelters that will take moms and kids, you can get on the housing voucher list for free/subsidized rent (used to be called section 8), foodshare (food stamps), workforce (job training & help finding a job), and Medicaid for health insurance for you and the kids. You can leave, there are resources available. Start planning now, bc this escalates. It ALWAYS escalates. I’m a social worker, i see it constantly. The fact he went for your neck and wanted to strangle you increases the chances he will one day kill you by 700%. He didn’t hit you, didn’t throw something at you, didn’t hit a wall, he got angry and his very first instinct was to cut off your oxygen supply. This doesn’t end well, please leave and get somewhere safe.

And he should have canceled it months ago when it was clear it was going to coincide with a newborn or a wife very close to giving birth.

13 *DAYS* 

Dude is nuts. My wife had 2 c sections. No way she would have been ready to take of an infant and toddler 13 days out.

The fact that he is considering going and it wasn't an immediate nope really pisses me off. What is he even thinking?
I'm sorry this is something you should even have to worry about.

Because the seat belt protects you from a random driver colliding with you. But the marriage only fails if **you** or **your partner** misbehaves. The proposition of a prenup suggests a lack of faith of at least one of those two people to uphold their end of the agreement.

didn't this get posted like, just the other day?

how can she have rejected you when you haven't even mustered up the courage to shoot your shot, to tell her how you feel, to ask her out, bud, lol. 

for a rejection to happen, you have to have actually taken the chance and asked her out or told her you like her.

if you like her, tell her. ask her on a date. if she says yes, great. if she says anything else, *that's* a rejection.

Absolutely not wrong. As I understand it, part of having children is sacrificing your own wants and needs for the good of your wife and child.

And it would absolutely not be anyone's benefit that your and your toddler's main support system is out of the country less than two weeks after a major surgery and a newborn is in the house.

Practically, if something goes wrong and you or your child have medical complications or even just find it too overwhelming at the last minute for him to leave, it is MUCH better for the bride and groom to know now he can't make it than to hear last minute.

If this person is truly a close friend, they will absolutely understand.

You are absolutely not wrong. It would be wrong regardless, but you’ll be recovering from major surgery.

You are not "the reason" he misses the wedding. You BOTH are having a child and you will be having major surgery. He needs to be home for his family.

Is your dad in the picture? Does she need your help financially to afford rent? There is no reason you should move in with her as a 22 yo with a partner, unless she is medically incapable of taking care of herself or destitute.

Absolutely not and he's crazy for wanting to go

Yeh your pushing him away - he is going to reach a breaking point and will call it quits with you eventually if you don’t change yr ways

How old is your kid? Does he ever ...see his own child?

You miss all the shots you don’t take 🤷🏻‍♀️ 

From a female perspective, I say just send the request, if she accepts it, awesome, send her a DM, if she ignores it, then you have your answer and you don’t have to keep wondering what could’ve been, you will have the answer your wanted.  Then again, you send it she accepts and you and her end up getting together or your end up possibly with a good friend, you never know, take the shot!

Call a woman's shelter

This whole situation is just brutal for both of you. Seven months of that schedule would break anyone down, and it's completely understandable that you're both at your breaking point

  
The thing that jumps out is how he's treating the symptoms instead of the actual problem - like you needing reassurance is somehow the issue when really it's that 16 hour days for 7 months straight isn't sustainable for any relationship. His comment about lunch was pretty harsh too, especially when you're literally just asking for crumbs of his time

  
Maybe it's worth having one big conversation about actual timelines and what "a couple more months" really means, because right now it sounds like you're both just white-knuckling through with no real end in sight. Sometimes the business dream has to get adjusted if it's gonna cost the marriage

He needs to reevaluate this situation.

Man here 👋, I have two kids, one was a c section. Regardless if it was natural birth or c section, I simply could not imagine leaving my partner to go overseas while she was recovering from the birth of a newborn, let alone from surgery. That is the period of time I am taking absolutely everything off of her plate so she can rest and recover and be pampered.

I understand the dilemma he is facing having committed to being a groomsman for a good friend, but still, fresh birth and giving support to the person he chose to spend his life with would outweigh that every time. No question

My husband would have cancelled immediately (I'm currently pregnant). Have you talked to him about this or asked him not to go? The fact that you also have a toddler means that you absolutely need him while recovering.

Not if you want the prenup to have any chance of standing up in the case of a divorce

He needs to miss the wedding.

He created two kids.  You need surgery to remove the most recent one from your body.  And there’s no guarantee you’ll both make it out ok.

The family he chose to create is the priority over his friend.

Can he get refundable tickets/reservations and then if you give birth early you guys can reevaluate the trip?

The notifications don't always show up for follow requests. If you can talk to her directly that'll be the best way to know.

know there’s an 8 year age gap n whether that’s okay or not is something only you guys can decide. But one thing I’ve learned is that women n men are often wired very differently emotionally. We get attached to emotional connection a lot more deeply while a lot of men just don’t process or express emotions the same way.

If I could suggest one thing it’d be to stop depending on him for all your emotional needs. Go out with your friends enjoy your own company build a life that feels full even when he’s not around. The more rooted you are in yourself the less you’ll feel affected by what he can or can’t give emotionally.  
Personally I was on the same page once. Later I realized that yes my boyfriend loved me but he didn’t always have the emotional capacity to love me in the exact way I wanted. That doesn’t necessarily make him a bad partner. Everyone has strengths n weaknesses n nobody comes as a perfect package.

If he loves you then love him back but try not to expect him to carry all your emotional baggage. Everyone is dealing with their own battles. Relationships are supposed to bring peace support n happiness not become another source of pressure. Focus on yourself too n make sure you’re emotionally fulfilled by your own life not just by a relationship.

Found this post after searching about needing alone time.  I am in my 60s and having this same issue.  A little bit of history - I was married at 24, had 3 kids and divorced at 41.  I’ve been happily divorced for 20 years.  I’ve had a couple 1+ year relationships but had nothing in the last 15 years. 

I am comfortable being alone.  I am an empty nester after many long years of taking care of a disabled daughter.  I work full time.  Along comes Mr. relationship and I am finding myself constantly negotiating alone time.  I refuse to feel flawed for this - I see it as an asset.  I am trying my best to communicate this is as a me thing and not a reflection of him. 

I don’t understand someone demanding your time.  I want someone else who has a life and isn’t looking to me to fill their down time.  I’m okay with being alone.  It’s my superpower.  I’ve told him time and time again, just hold onto me like you’re cupping water.  I promise I’ll stick around if you just let me be me.  So far I don’t think it’s working ;)

you have a toddler AND you'll be 13 days post-csection? absolutely not. this isn't even about the birthday thing - major surgery plus newborn plus toddler is not a solo job that early in recovery. the groom will understand that babies don't wait for convenient timing.

He's not lazy, he's one of the hardest working people I know. I think he's just so used to this behavior, he thinks it's normal, and I don't know how to get him to acknowledge it's not, he keeps saying to me what do you want me to do about it and I don't know what to say that doesnt just sound like a child like she hit me I want her in trouble because thats what he thinks it is.

A women's shelter can take you and the children in. Do not stay around to be murdered

Even if his version of events is true, he's not over her and you should break up. Tell him why - you betrayed my trust by texting an ex behind my back. Boom, closure.

There are shelters where abused women and children can stay. Look one up in your area.

Yeah that's not long enough for him to have been ready to date someone else.

He doesn’t actually, like you he likes that you like him and it’s an ego boost.

6 months together and he's still seeking "closure" from a 3 month relationship? That math doesn't add up at all. The whole nervous stammering and vague answers when you caught him just screams that there's way more to this story than what he's telling you.

this is what i was thinking and what i kept telling him but he continued to deny it. i honestly don’t know if i can believe him at this point though as my trust has been broken. i didn’t want breaking up to be my only option but it sounds like it’s starting to be that

they were broken up for 2ish months i believe

I'm wondering if he knows she's insane but is lazy enough to just leave it so somebody else has to deal with it.

I was Wendy for Halloween once in college. I went in and got a Frosty..

There's no reason to beat around the bush.

If you are unhappy, then that's it.

"I feel that our relationship cannot progress further. I don't want you to dwell on this and think that it's your fault. We simply are not compatible and I want us to both move on and be happy".

If I could that is what I would do, how do I convince my dad of this we have a good relationship until this, but I don't know I can show him how insane this is, you know?

How long before you got together did they break up? He's very obviously not over her/it

You both are young. When you will be in your 20s you will have the answers of it all. Being in my young 20s I would suggest don’t do something you are feeling unsure of. If this thought came in your mind, know it came for a reason and just say I don’t want to do this cam thing anymore. If he’s fine with you not doing it very good stay with him but if he gets angry or forces you, so bro why would you want to be with somebody like him?

Its very simple, but it's not easy. You just tell him the truth. Sit him down face to face, or just give him a phone call. Speak your peace. Be honest. Tell him what you'd like to have happen. Whether it's a break for a while, or just a full clean separation. Yes, it will hurt both of you. Yes, it's the right thing to do.        
Yes, he will probably try to sweet talk you which will make it harder. Look up the musical scene from the South Park movie with Sadaam singing I can change. It'll be a lot like that probably. Don't be afraid to shut down the conversation if he tries to derail it. Probably a phone call would be best if your unsure of being able to follow through in person.       
Lives too short to spend with people that don't appreciate you. Every relationship (whether romantic, professional, or friends) is a lesson. We learn about what we value in others, as well as ourselves.

A chore? That’s absolutely terrible for both of you. 

No, sex should not be a chore. 

Do we have sex and *occasionally* it is mediocre because something is off? Absolutely. Because we are tired or just ‘off.’ But **most** of the time it is extremely great sex / hot and we both orgasm. 

He probably asks you *because* he can tell you aren’t enthusiastically enjoying it and he is nervous that he is pushing you to do something that you don’t want.

You misread that part. It says DID like me back.

Have you ever met in person?

I didn’t mention it in the post, but her brother actually worked here briefly last year. I asked him about how she was doing and I told him to tell her I said hi.

I don’t know about you, but I don’t always follow up when someone asks me to tell someone they said hi. It’s always struck me as one of those polite things that people just say, but not always actually telling said person. You know what I’m saying? I’m worried that’s what happened when I asked her brother to say hi to her for me.

Yeah you've gotta tell him and you're likely to lose him. No matter what reasons you give, you chested on him and he has the right to leave you. I hope you move past this and grow as a person away from the toxicity of your ex

A clear breakup is enough and skipping the date is totally fair.

He’s getting married. I don’t think he has feelings for you

Have a open relationship - sex with others but emotionally with her… that’s if you want to go that route - me I’ll just throw the deuces up and move on - wasting time on the wrong one, let someone else play the games

Your other coworker told you she didn't like you back. Why would that be different now?

RUN   
and break up with him before your big day so you can just start anew

Well the issue is an entry level job just wouldnt pay enough minimum wage here is about a dollar an hour. Her medical bills alone have been a couple 100k dollars when she needed an emergency Nissan procedure. Also you cant work while studying engineering in my country. Its considered a full time obligation

I’m sorry but this comes off as pretty out of touch. You had plenty of chances and the only two pseudo moves he made were when he was drunk. To me this seems very one sided on your end and I hope that with him married and the very clear message of you not being invited that you’ll be able to find closure on this. Best of luck.

Also regardless of if shes my gf my family would pay as it no real money to us. Its about 10k dollars a year. My family has more than enough to go around. I told her in the past when we fought that if shes not happy amd leaves me my family will support her till she graduates.

I’m thinking she wants a more *exciting* situation where instead of a cordial invitation, perhaps a passionate kiss sets things off and leads to a more STEAMY situation rather than a cookie cutter game of genital stimulation.

Do got to say boy won’t be afraid to get them red wings

You could be out by July 9th, but, what do I know? 😏😒🙄

That's assault, but not battery. That's what you report, honey. 

But first, where can you go NOW? 

I know the look you're talking about. I don't share this a lot, but my dad choked me years ago. I can still see the anger and hatred in his eyes. And that was my hard line. And I want this to be yours. 

This is not normal. You know it. That is why you are so upset. Listen to your instincts. Because there WILL be a next time if you stay and you may not survive. Men who choke women kill women.

You say "I have been unhappy for a while now, and I think it is time we went our separate ways as I dont see a future together" and if it is true it can help to say "I am not in love with you anymore"

breaking up is scary as hell especially when it's your first time but you already know what you need to do which is honestly half the battle. since you mentioned he's been manipulating you and you're worried about him talking you out of it, maybe consider doing it somewhere semi-public like a coffee shop or park where you feel safer but can still have privacy for the conversation

  
you don't need some elaborate reason to ask him to meet up - just say you want to talk about something important and suggest meeting somewhere. keep it simple and direct like "hey can we meet up tomorrow, i need to talk to you about something" 

  
when you do it just be clear and don't leave room for negotiation. something like "this relationship isn't working for me anymore and i've decided to end it" then stick to your guns no matter what he says. it's gonna suck and you'll probably cry but that doesn't mean you're making the wrong choice. your mental health comes first and you already recognize this isn't healthy for you

  
cancel that date asap too - no point in dragging it out when you know what needs to happen. you got this even though it feels impossible right now

“I’m not happy in this relationship, and i want to end our relationship. I’m not doing this to hurt you, though i acknowledge it likely hurts badly right now. I still care about you as a person, but I’m not going to stay in this relationship any longer”

I have but he just doesnt have it in him but i think ill try to talk to him again so we can get this figured out

If your family is so wealthy, surely they have contacts to get her an interview for an entry level position.

damn that's really rough timing with him finally admitting his feelings right when you found someone good 💀 

  
the whole "couldn't see you as anything but a little girl" excuse is honestly BS - dude had literal decades to work through that and chose to wait until you were moving on with your life. You dodged a bullet with someone who can't communicate or commit properly anyway 😂

And one more thing. When he does things right. LET HIM KNOW. Positive reinforcement. Reward him with words and encourage him to keep going. Sex is insanly fun, when both partys enjoy it.

It was thoughtless and unkind of him to put your girlfriend in that position. That said, if this is the only time he's been a bad friend to her, I don't necessarily think it's a "cut him off forever" offense.  Or that his primary offense was against you rather than her.

I can see having a "that was really not okay, this is only ever going to be a friendship, and if you step over that line again we'll have to end the friendship" conversation, minimizing contact outside of work for a while, and giving him one chance to get it together and be a real friend going forward.

Sounds like you just want him to take what he wants. You want to be dominated. Have him tease you a bit before just going straight for the end goal.

Well, consent doesn’t blanket apply to every act and situation. If you’re having sex and he suddenly goes for anal without first discussing it, you might be upset. So he’s being respectful, which is a good thing. 

Have you talked to him about being more dominant and integrating more foreplay?

Create a safe word with him and explain that you want him to take charge and if you are uncomfortable you will use your safe word to eliminate asking and checking in.

Explain to him that you want some light BDSM where he is dominant and you are the sub. Put into words what you want him to do that is more descriptive than just "take charge" or "be dominant" otherwise you come across as lazy and want someone to read your mind. 

Explain that you have a kink for being teased, caressed, licked/eaten out, etc. prior to penetration. Tell him you want him to drive you crazy with desire but not give in until HE decides. This reframes foreplay from a checklist to a type of power play that accomplishes the same thing.

You put her on that pedestal, you can’t leave her when it suddenly gets “too much.” It’s just time that you’re honest with her and you set boundaries. Tell her that you have love for this relationship, but you cannot be each other’s entire world. It’s not that it’s a deficit in love for her, but that you need to have space to pour love into yourself again. Don’t cold turkey it and suddenly cut her out. Reach out to friends, hang out with them and slowly incorporate it back into your life. You can’t expect things to go back to where they were overnight, but communicate maturely. As adults we all need our own time and it might be a hard pill to swallow at first but she also needs to learn that space doesn’t equate to abandonment. Ask her to listen to you without reacting, where each person gets their time to speak without interruptions. I hope that this all works out for you!

A passenger who grabs the wheel is someone who will never be my passenger ever again. They can take the bus. 

If she had caused a crash, all of the responsibility for it will fall on you as the driver. You have a duty to ensure your passengers are not a distraction or interference. Your dad is underreacting. If this is his car and the terms of your use is that you drive your psychopathic sister around, then you go car free until you decide to get your own.

Really?  Two lawyers?  Ugh.  That's two too many.  Can't this just be done through mediation?

If your husband did do what you want, would that make sex “not just not a chore”, but actually exciting and desirable for you?

Thank you for the advice i will do that i didnt think of that

Just ask her if she wears her seatbelt every time she gets in the car. Does that mean she’s assuming she’s getting in an accident?  No, we do things hoping for the best and preparing for the worst..

Look, adding her again is fine. You can easily say 'workmate said they saw you and it got me thinking I should reach out' or whatever. 

But be aware that while she apparently reciprocated feelings she fully humoured and explored the advance of another workmate. I am not saying that's a bad thing per se, it just means that her feelings were many magnitudes weaker than yours. That's something that will stick in your mind if you do pursue this, just be careful with that.

"three-minute walk away from my mom's house."

Sounds like your sister can walk. Also sounds like she has some pretty serious undiagnosed mental health issues that you're parents are dropping the ball on.

My family is paying for her university. We both go to the top uni in the country and both of us are studying different engineering fields.

He already has my consent when he has his d in me im saying i want him to take the lead and be dominant i could see why it sounds confusing tho

You are worrying about the wrong thing!   Your family is doing her a terrible disservice by financially supporting her.  

Getting a job (preferably a degree and a profession) is part of knowing how to be an adult.  Without these skills she's terribly at risk of being stuck in a bad relationship situation because she's financially dependent.  

If your parents really want to do her a favour, they'd pay for her to go to University and teach her how to apply for a job and do interviews

And potential disability.

This sounds like a pretty fundamental incompatibility in a very new relationship. I would suggest wishing each other well and moving on to find partners whose priorities and life plans align better

Is it boring because of him or because you're not a sexual person? Do you ever fantasize or not even have sexual thoughts?

My father wanted my ex-husband to sign a prenup. I was horrified! My dad sat me down and explained that it is “a just incase”. (I had a business and a car.) So I told my ex and he was cool with it. Fast forward 12years and I get cancer and he gets a girlfriend. I got better and divorced him. 

Never in a million years did I think he would do something like that. Never. 
When I asked for the divorce he turned into a asshat. Contested the prenup. Wanted everything, got nothing. 

My dad had passed before the divorce and I was so happy that he was looking out for me. 

No prenup. No marriage.

Lolllll love the exaggeration but i have told him to stop asking me and just do the things hes said he wants to do , i agree i could communicate more tho

This is a really good point, and my mom‘s last hospitalization was initially due to a severe UTI. She was so dehydrated when I took her to the emergency room, that her blood was coagulating in the vial as soon as they drew it. Urinary tract infections in the elderly can really cause a lot of psychological symptoms that you would be surprised about. Could be something that he might need to be screened for.

The problem is it's not my car my sister and I share the car and we both need it to get to our respective jobs, there is no way if I want to get to work to not drive with her in the car. I talked to a counselor, who said that when I drive to have her in in the back passanger seat. When I told her this and that I don't feel safe with her, tried to push me out of the car then she took the car keys and proceeded to walk to her job (Different from her internship), which was a three-minute walk away from my mom's house.

If you’re talking about penetrative sex, a lot of women don’t enjoy it in isolation. Usually it requires additional work on either his part or yours to make sure you’re getting the right stimulation. There’s no shame in using toys, etc. to help.

I mean, the most you’re risking is being left hanging again. And yeah, if it happened again that would be a no.

I dont think it hurts anything to send her one more friend request. Sending a simple friend request without any accompanying message isnt assault, threatening, shouldnt make her upset, etc. Maybe the excuse of her talking to a different coworker was true and thats why she didnt immediately accept the prior one. However, if you are ignored again just accept that she is not interested and move on. Anything you do after another ignore would be inappropriate. Good luck!

And lemme guess, he feels uncomfortabel with this situation.

My best advice. Test safewords. In ,,powerplay" during Sex uts the best Method for him to know, that he doesnt do shit stuff, and for you to still have controll.

If he watches Porn, show him something with a bit of dominance play and kitteraly just tell him ,,do that to me, shove me around, get me into positions, dont ask me but tell me what to do"

Look into some **light** BDSM where he's a dom and you're a sub. I say light because most people think of getting chained to the ceiling or other scary stuff, but it doesn't have to be extreme like that. It is good to communicate what you do or don't want outside of sex tho because you could get hurt otherwise.

look i get why the top comment is saying that but your situation was actually pretty messy with timing and workplace stuff. she had another guy asking her out literally on her last day so keeping your request pending while sorting that out makes sense honestly 

  
but here's the thing - you already pulled back your request once which was probably the right move at the time. now going back again might look a bit much even if her circumstances changed. maybe try a different approach like if you have mutual friends from work see if theres a natural way to reconnect through group hangouts or something

  
workplace connections are tricky because even after someone leaves there's still that weird dynamic where it can feel forced if you chase too hard. but if she's been coming by the store multiple times that could mean something or could mean nothing

Damn has society really changed that much that people think selling nudes is just a trivial every day thing? Society has made it so but this thing your girlfriend is doing is shady as hell. She hides her phone, she makes up excuses as to why (to get "*YOU"* a gift), and tries mental gymnastics as to justify why she sold naked pictures of her to strangers online (that is if we give the benefit of the doubt that they were AI made).

I'd argue that at least if she would have discussed it with you previously, then sure its fine. She may not need your permission, but you may not need tolerate these behaviors.

Sounds like you need to worry about you and stay out of his business - what ever he is doing that’s his life choices even if you don’t “get it” - that’s between those 2 people - 18 plus is the legal age - if not then change the law, become the next president… make a change

My thing is after two years it’s just gonna hurt him for no good reason and if he hasn’t pieced it together he never will the only one who knows is my mother. 

He loves me but he would only focus on the cheating and betrayal no matter the circumstances which scares me. 

I can live with it I just sometimes feel guilty as if I didn’t love him enough to like not cheat. But I think I’d feel more guilt if I told him and hurt him.

Oh man, my mom got into all of that stuff on YouTube as well, in particular the alien based religions. It was really hard to deal with. Ultimately, over her last few months of life, she actually forgot about it altogether and never brought it up again. Unfortunately, she was having psychosis in the hospital in the nursing home where she was placed for rehab, and I really think that the constant exposure to YouTube had degraded her mental health at that point. 

It sounds like there’s a lot going on with your dad, and as a fellow diabetic, I know that we sometimes are our own worst enemies. I don’t really have much advice for you except that I feel bad you’re going through this, and if there’s any way that you can figure out how to keep your dad away from YouTube/the internet in general, I would certainly urge you to do so. There is so much talk about protecting kids from things on the Internet, but senior citizens are unfortunately often just as vulnerable to that kind of thing and I haven’t really found a good way to protect them from it.

She sees a prenup as your exit plan, and she sees it as evidence that you don’t trust her and you think shes a leech who would steal your company from you. I don’t think theres anything you can say to change her view.  In fact, she may now believe you see the marriage as temporary, no matter what you say.  

This is a good time to consider ore-marital counseling.  Hopefully with the aid of an objective third party, the two of you can work through this.

One thing women need to know is that if they communicate that they have been sexually assaulted or raped men are likely to tread lightly and maybe even ask permission in the early days of the relationship.

If not and he's still timid, just tell him to stop being timid. Bad sex still 5 years in is probably a sign of incompatibility.

Sounds like he's doing a good job, but you are failing to communicate your needs to him. It's very important for a guy to ask to do something...someone could shove a plunger handle in your Vee because they are turned on by it...but you said not to ask and just do it, then you are upset.

I think you just need to have a conversation about what you want and expect in detail for sex and then you will be able to turn things around.

It depends on if the people are actually reasonable. Or if there's an abusive party. For example there was a post yesterday about a woman being told she had to work during summer holidays as a teacher while pregnant with her third child. I imagine if her pos husband got a prenup it'll say both parties have to work if the other is working. Which seems reasonable when you write it down before hand. Except it's not.

Send her the request again. You’ve got nothing to lose.

I'm pretty sure your girlfriend is allowed to sell photos of "herself" without your permission. Do you think she's your property?

I think the work dynamic and honestly the effort of a relationship is turning him off. He menetioned how happy he is with his life as it is currently. After looking at these responses I think I definitely deserve someone who ensures I know I'm wanted/desired.

Yesssss exactly and he knows he has my consent when we are doing it thats when i want him to tale control

Honestly, if they are Ai and you can confirm it, i respect the grift she’s got going on

Would you also like him to do foreplay on  you?

So overall you want him to be more dominant and ,,just do it" instead of making it a democracy?

Give him a pinky and put him to bed.. lol

Oh yes it’s not healthy jumping and I’ve talked to my therapist and worked it out. I mainly don’t want to hurt him or lose the relationship.

This resonates way too hard. The "you're all I really have" line would've sent me into full panic mode too - that's not love, that's responsibility you never signed up for. 

  
You basically became her entire emotional infrastructure instead of building a life together, and now you're both trapped in this weird codependent loop where she needs constant reassurance and you feel guilty for having normal human limits. The fact that you can recognize you helped create this dynamic is actually huge though - most people just blame the other person and call it a day.

I want him to lead and take control of

There is no foreplay its just getting straight to it and he nits and thats it. I meant that i dont want him to ask me if he can do stuff to me i want him to lead and do it

If your entire world is your girlfriend, she will lose respect for you, which will 100% end in her leaving or cheating on you - it's only a matter of time.

I cab see why its confusing i meant like i want him to not ask me if he can touch me or like play with certain areas.  I just think the sex is boring we just do quickies and thats it

I think that may be contributing. I'm reviewing our prior texts and I'm seeing that it's me putting in more effort. If he wanted to, I think he would. Thank you for your insights

Using AI for this is crazy 💀

Are you trying to say you wish he was more dominant? Real doms get enthusiastic consent first before anything.

Someone who ignores you doesnt want to talk to you. Let's use common sense

Yeah she should be working and contributing to their savings up until they’re ready to have a kid.

You’re mad that he asks for consent?

Seemed like a reasonable place to look for Wendy.

He stomped all over your boundaries, broke your trust, invaded your privacy then acted like YOU did something wrong?!
But you asking him to come with you to social things and family events is not being respectful of his boundaries. He just doesnt want to do the work of a typical relationship but you certainly should of course. 

This relationship has run its course. Get out of this mud pit. It would be a waste of your youth to stick around. Tell him you want to give him space to he an individual. Over there.

Wrong subreddit, you want r4r

Not even a little bit

Let me get the #6 then all the way

The thing about people like, "I do what makes me happy. I don't feel obligated to others. Anything you perceive as rude is just the way I am, and I will never change it. I am logical while others are emotional,"

is that if you say, "Cool. Me too. It makes me unhappy to be with you. So I am going to do the logical thing, and dump you,"

it usually comes as a surprise to them, and they have all sorts of objections.

I do not want to come off as rude or disrespectful, but I have and will not ask for sympathy about this. I am having a difficult time with how I proceed with my life. I don’t know what to do, which is why I turned to this subreddit. I understand and appreciate your comment as I am always open to have a conversation and always open to advice/feedback regardless of if it is something I don’t want to hear. Regardless thank you for your comment.

Idk if it should feel like a chore especially at 25. You gotta look inward as to why it feels like a chore, maybe you’re out growing each other

When did I ever say I supported detaining anyone without a fair trial? It’s INNOCENT until proven guilty. Those people need to be moved to a jail and have the same rights as everyone else until they get a trial. I was never talking about them. 

But sorry, I don’t have the same level of empathy for CONVICTED child molesters, sex offenders, murderers, etc. as I do for the rest of the population. That is the only group I am talking about. They made a choice to commit a horrible crime and now it’s time to pay the consequences. It’s either that or prison, which isn’t much better.

Sir this is a Wendy’s

I’m 33M and I have similar feelings. I don’t particularly enjoy sex. I don’t know if I’d call it a “chore” per se, but it’s not super fulfilling to me, and therefore it’s not something I really crave or think about. 

because it doesn’t feel like anything to me and how I can overcome this and actually make it feel enjoyable for me too.

I think the obvious question to this is are you orgasming during sex?

Can clarify what you mean by "I hate is he asks if he could do stuff to me instead of just doing it"?

FYI, you should respond to the post so op actually see's this, especially when it has nothing to do with my comment.

I tried to 2 years ago. They dismissed me and ghosted me

So just let me get this right. You dislike him talking to you during sex and asking stuff? And that is, what makes you feel like sex is a chore, or does it always feel like it, and him talking makes it worse?

Thank you for saying this I think you’re completely right.   
She’s been a lot better this evening after we went swimming to burn some energy off. 

I just need to find some ways to self soothe for sure!

Create a 3-500 allowance fund each month just to sleep with women - dates or amount for the night - get your confidence up and you’ll have a relationship

Ehhhhhh i mean. Youre right it wont do any good to say anything. Your current bf will probably break up with you if you tell him. This was a bad thing you did. However the thing im most worried about is that it seems like you havent been single since you've been 14, and the fact that you jumped from an abusive relationship straight to another relationship with no in-between time whatsoever is ringing some alarms to me (and not to bring up the fact that the age gap is worrisome as well). Look im not saying that you should break up or tell him that you cheated on him or whatever, but do think about the fact that you really havent had the time to figure yourself out, being single, etc. Youre young and you have your whole life ahead. 

Going back to the topic of the post, like I said, if you tell him or not it depends on what you want. Do you want to be completely honest and clear your conscience at the cost of your relaitonship? Or... not? Your choice

Your dad's living in some alternate reality if he thinks grabbing someone's steering wheel is normal sibling stuff - that's straight up dangerous and could've killed both of you. Cut her off from rides completely and don't let anyone guilt trip you about it, your safety isn't negotiable

People throw around that trope about SAHMs(specifically) not being valued for the sacrifices they make or the work they do while simultaneously ignoring the sacrifices the other person makes so they can do that & the monetary value of that sacrifice shared with their partner equally that value gained in being able to be the parent given the opportunity to have that time with their kids can’t be quantified & divided equally.

This thing of attaching a comically unrealistic salary a stay at home parent is ridiculous & falls apart when asked to explain how that works in reality.

The hours of the work that can be accounted for realistically, the standard that work needs to meet, what happens if they aren’t meeting the standards for that pay level, their partners contributions when not working to all these jobs titles this SAHPs salary is being calculated on etc.

Work in the home is valued so much that it’s compensated at the time by the household income they share with their partner but up to twice more in the future if there’s a divorce. 

They get compensated again for the value of that work with their half of the shared assets gained during marriage but can also get compensated more if alimony payments are applied.

Well after you leave this man I hope you don’t fall in love with a similar situation

So you dislike having sex with your BF, but you also want him to just do it, and not ask?  Seems confusing.

This is the exact reasoning my friend regrets not having a prenup.

damn this is a tough one. you were stuck in what sounds like an abusive situation for years starting when you were just a kid, and finding someone who treated you well probably felt like a lifeline. the overlap happened because you were scared to leave someone who was hurting you - that's not the same as just cheating for fun.

  
two years in though, this could really mess things up if it comes out later. like if he finds out from someone else or pieces it together, that's gonna be way worse than hearing it from you. but also you gotta think about whether he's the type who could understand the context or if he'd just focus on the cheating part. some people get that escaping abuse is complicated, others just see black and white.

  
maybe the bigger question is whether you can live with keeping this from someone you love long term. relationships built on edited versions of the truth tend to get wobbly eventually. but telling him is definitely gonna be a painful conversation either way.

Take the kids, pets, important papers and go.

So he hurts you on purpose, admits to it, and shifts the blame? Why exactly are you with this jackass?

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

sending hugs and healing thoughts.

This is a good conversation to have with a counselor there.    She will need a lawyer of her own.  The prenup is also to protect HER.  

things like, it can have a 'cheat' clause.  If you decide to trade her in for a newer model in 15 years, she gets XX amount.  If she stays home to raise kids, you will put YY amount into her retirement accounts each year.   If the business goes under, she is not responsible for any of the debt.  Those kinds of things.

You talk about it NOW, while you still love and care for each other.   It's like insurance for a car.  You do not plan to get into a wreck when you get behind the wheel of your car.  But you still pay for insurance, just in case.   Just in case a tire blows on the highway and your car flips and takes  out 2 more cars - your insurance will cover that.   Same with the prenup.  You are not planning to explode the relationship.  But you want to be prepared.

You will not succeed in your business without your wife’s contribution. I doubt you have gotten where you are without her already. You better make sure she gets a great lawyer to review the prenup and discuss it fairly with you and your lawyer otherwise you are taking her for a ride

I would say this would be a case of not waking up past history. Its your past and its not like you are going back to M20 Max again.

Maybe you're right, your bf deserves someone better than you.  But shouldn't that be your bf's decision?  He has chosen you.  Why not take the win?  You and your bf are different people.  Like any two people, the two of you have different values, different points of view.  Maybe he does not value education, for example, as highly as you do.  Or intelligence.  Or looks.  Maybe what he likes about you has nothing to do with those qualities.

So never go in the car with her ever again, refuse her to ever drive her anywhere. Limit contact as much as you can until you move out.

Nice I hope to have this in my life :)

Haven't heard of that before! Feel free to DM me if you want. :)

Is he actually addicted to porn or are you equating occasional porn use when jerking off to addiction? 

It's only an "addiction" if it's actually interfering with his life/your sex life. 

If you don't want your partner watching porn at all, tell him that. If he still does it, you can break up with him and let him find a girlfriend who doesn't care that he watches porn.

For what it's worth, I'm saying this as a chick who occasionally watches porn or reads erotica if i want to jerk off. If he needs to watch it in order to have sex with you, it's a genuine relationship ending problem, but porn does not equal cheating.

Fuck their feelings get the prenup. 

Not wanting to sign one is a sign they plan to rob you.

Marriage is a legal arrangement sanctioned by the government and a prenup is just an extension of that arrangement.

If two people love each other, they don't need a marriage license or a prenup in order to stay devoted and together for life. 

If your partner is  not willing to have a very clear perspective on what modern marriage is, they're not very mature and likely not ready for marriage.

You don’t know that he’ll stop the next time, and that’s why you need to get away from him. Please contact a domestic violence hotline or local organization. This is incredibly dangerous. I’m so sorry. I know it’s a shock. I know you love him. But he is not safe for you to be around. Strangling a partner is a huge predictor of homicide.

There's a lot to unpack on this one.

The obvious question I have is how have you talked to him about this? Low confrontation option: If it's making you uncomfortable you need to express that and if necessary just stop the activity you are doing to get the point across.

High Conforontation Option: "Listen here dirtbag. You came out of a womb just like everyone else. Just because you think you are the first Catholic to invent sodomy like all of them before you doesn't mean you get to pass judgement on anything else the rest of the world is doing. Please try not to be a walking patriarchical stereotype if for no other reason then enlightened self interest. There are large portions of the world that will never accept you so alienating about half the people you do because you still have that "girl's are icky" as your default is at best going to cut out friends like moi, and at worst going to get your ass kicked."

I mean everyone's a little bit of a dick in their 20's and he's probably a little socially stunted by being in the closet and Catholic (source: generational experience) but he needs to grow out of this pretty quick or you don't owe him further friendship.

My friends and I have commented how there is no purer strain of misogyny like the thankfully rare gay male misogyny. Fortunately they typically grow out of it or at least keep it quiet when they figure out that it's about the only thing LGBTQ+ spaces want to deal with less then B people existing\*.

\*This is a joke with love and another lived experience thing.

I think the only place you went wrong was agreeing to see him when you initially didn’t want to. 

Otherwise, this is all him ignoring pretty plainly stated boundaries that he agreed to. You’d already told him ‘no,’ you’re not obligated to keep saying it. I’d be irritated as well.

Its not disrespect. Your boyfriend needs to learn that NO means NO, end of story.

This reads like a toxic manosphere bait post. But it seems real.

I mean I accept the guy I’ve been dating for who he is but I’ve suggested things or noted lack of communication and he fixes it 🤷🏼‍♀️

They will really use any straw-brained excuse to be violent, won’t they. Sickening.

The term you're missing for Julie is the golden child, and his parents sound narcissistic...

There are a bunch of subs that discuss this, but they'll shadowban my comment if i link to them.

This is an unreasonable and unrealistic ask. He’s not allowed to have sex for a full year? This has got be some kind of shit post or you are incredibly out of touch with human wants and needs.

I didn’t think about it before because it was less serious of a choice. Also accidents happen.

A breakup only has to make sense to one person in the relationship. You can end this relationship anytime. For any reason. You have a bunch of very good reasons. This sounds exhausting and miserable. Future-you will be very grateful for the courage you show now.

The most important part of relationships are how the other person makes you feel.  He feels good around you which is another reason why he chooses you. 

Depression absolutely does distort your worldview. I don't think you can trust that critical little voice saying you have a witchy nose, but even if you did, why does that mean you don't deserve love? Why does a person with a double chin not deserve love? Or low grades? I guarantee if you look around you'll see all kinds of people in relationships and they have all kinds of noses and chins. Some of them didn't do well in school but it doesn't matter.  

Self esteem is not about being flawless; it's about being comfortable in your own skin and realizing you deserve good things. There is a book called Self Esteem by Matthew McKay. It's cognitive behavioral therapy and it was recommended to me by a therapist who uses it extensively. I recommend getting it, and pencil and paper to do the exercises in it. Writing activates areas of your brain that typing doesn't. I found it very helpful and think it's something that could help you until you have your appointment. 

I also recommend doing things that make you feel good and budget permitting, some of the things that you've always wanted to do. It all works together to build self esteem.

There’s really no “let him get away with it”. It’s mental, psychological, and emotional abuse first to make you think it’s your fault, or it’s not a big deal, etc. It’s manipulation making her accept what he’s doing to her, not her turning a blind eye.

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

She stayed the night with him after a work event - come-on man - you can’t make this sht up - you accepted that and allowed that disrespect… I don’t understand people these days… everyone thinks you have to catch people in the moment… but then again she did tell you that he said he had feelings for her… man idk I would have left that night she stayed with him - I wouldn’t even be talking about his feels at this point of time

If supporting full citizenship for all immigrants while also not wanting violent criminals in the streets makes me a terrible person in your eyes, so be it. My partner has no issues with my beliefs he feels the same way himself.

he's kind of a jerk.  That puts it in the same category as two heterosexual people where one of them puts down the other or constantly derides them even though they seem to continue to meet and hang out.

In other words, his sexuality isn't the important part of this friendship.  It's the fact that he doesn't treat you well and you don't have to be friends with jerks like that.

Not going back to the ex regardless. There are other people who exist just wondering if people have chosen to stay with someone out of love who struggled financially and if they regretted it or not.

Nobody is going to advise you to stay with your abusive boyfriend.

Yeah, I also see the implication that there are people who do deserve to be kept in those camps with rotten food and without due process, adequate medical care, and proper facilities. 

Youre so busy thinking about how shitty your parents are that you dont see how horrible your beliefs are.

OP built the business 4 year ago without her and people in this topic are saying she should be entitled to it. If the sexes were swapped, people would be saying to go with prenup. Always biased, this sub.

I’m happy to read this. Take your friend up on their offer. Take your kids and any pets you have with you, as well as all important documentation like birth certificates, marriage certificate, titles of owned property, social security cards/information, etc.

So you did or did not commit the mortal sin of premarital sex as a practicing Catholic?

Definitely open to couples therapy! We're going on 18 years together and have been before (but not in years). Perhaps it's time for another visit :)

I didn't say you were childish, I said you're acting that way. Everyone in the thread agrees that you're being unreasonable. I guess it's time for you to do some self reflection. Seriously, therapy would help. It helps almost everyone, so I'm not saying you're mentally deranged or anything. 

People can't live up to unreasonable expectations. You weren't in a relationship. He was single and he dated other people. If you can't get over it, just go find another guy. But guess what, dudes in the late 20s or 30s have pasts also.

Not made of money more so just financially stable. I don’t even expect it I’m more so curious about people who married for love vs finances and whether they have regretted it long term.

Here is a man's perspective.   

If you want to date this guy again then you have to be 100% completely OK with whatever he did while the two of you were broken up.  Think of it as your next date being your first date and his past is as irrelevant as your first date with any other guy.   

But if he crosses your boundary by keeping in contact with Ex's prior hookups then you need to break up with him for good and never ever get back together again.  Let him know that before your next date.  

If you truly know for a fact that he won't cut his ex's off and that there will be a fight then you need to consider it over with him and move on.   Don't start another relationship with him, nor start one with anyone else, that you know is going to have problems.  Instead go meet new people and date someone that doesn't come with that type of drama and old baggage.

Man here. I get where folks are coming from about setting some restrictions on someone you broke up with, but I feel like the boundary is on yourself, not him. 

You set your boundary, and he can choose to respect that or not and you can choose how to proceed given his behavior while you were broken up. Everyone here has free will. 

You know yourself and if you wouldn't be able to handle him sleeping with someone else, thats a you thing and its important to be self aware and stick to your convictions. Its fair to not pursue a relationship with him, for any reason. You actually dont even need a reason to not be in a relationship with someone, just FYI. 

Ultimately, it seems like youre no longer compatible. That sucks, but you have to move on and not involve yourself in a relationship that would be detrimental to your spirit. 

I say this as someone who is a sex positive atheist with zero judgement.

My perspective as a man: it was an unreasonable expectation that he never sleep around while you're broken up. Especially considering he was in another city with no guarantee of relocating to yours. 

I think the answer is that you two should not get back together regardless. You're not compatible in an area that matters significantly to you.

Does he work? Can you ask him to go to the store with a grocery list that’ll take him an hour or more to complete? Any reason to get him out of the house. Have a locksmith on standby and have them change the locks while he’s gone. Call the police and request at least one officer be present for when he returns, explaining that he is getting increasingly violent and attempted to kill you (that is what he did when he put his hands on your throat. He didn’t stop himself, *you* stopped him by grabbing his hands/wrists).

It’s not safe for you to remain in that house because he will very likely try to break in to hurt you again, but this will give you a buffer so you can get yourself situated. Any word from your friends?

He is homophobic but more so he is a misogynist. If two women together dont make sense but two men do then his view point is that women's only place is to serve men if and when desired. Congrats your gay 'best friend' doesnt respect you or anyone of your gender. Let the trash take itself out.

You are welcome. I am sorry you are feeling this pain, but it doesn't have to be for nothing. This is probably a good time for you to  sit down and really come to grips with what you want and value in life. Not what you think your values ought to be, not what anyone else says they should be, but what you, in your heart of hearts, know them to be. Then you can move forward having learned a lot about yourself. 

Some people call living life according to your values "judgmental." But unless you have no values at all, you have to make value judgments. So  you never have to apologize for your values.

Good Luck and Gods Blessings.

Who broke up with whom?

It doesnt matter if its cheating or not. He knows you are not OK with it, said he wouldn't do it again, and did it again. 

If he felt that your request that he not watch porn wasnt reasonable or acceptable he needed to tell you then so you could decide if you were comfortable staying with him. But now you know not only that he will continue to use porn, he will lie to you about it.

As for what you can do- he will always watch porn. If he says he is stopping it just means hes going to lie to you again. You could have a serious discussion about it where you make it clear that your priority is honesty and you dont  intend to dump him over the porn, and see if he can be honest with you going forward. Or you can dump him.

Right but you had premarital sex before you broke up, so what does it matter? You both broke the tenets of Catholicism with each other; why does it matter if he died it with other people, too? It doesn't make you better in your god's eyes to have premarital sex with one person vs. 100, does it? All sin is the same in "His eyes?"

You were broken up.  While you were broken up he was not in a relationship with you so he was free to do as he wished.  If he wanted sex with someone else he was 100% free to do it.  

You can not dictate what someone can do or can not do while you were not dating them.   

But you can decide if you want to date them again or not.   

So choose wisely and if you choose to date him again then you have to let go of any concerns about what he did or did not do while you were broken up.

Sounds like he broke up so he could sleep with women that you already suspected he might hook up with without feeling guilty.  Now that he got it out of his system, he wants you but wants to continue those friendships with women he slept with.  Keep your boundary and walk away.  Who, when, where and how is irrelevant.

Are you sure he was with his dad?

I agree with others that you both should do couples counseling to talk this out and at the very least he should continue on in individual therapy. He sounds like a pushover/people pleaser and that is causing problems not only for him (that he doesn't see) but for you as well. 

I went through this a bit with my husband being the only kid out of 4 that his parents relied on while helping the other 3 and not him. When it started impacting me, we had some big talks and I would have walked if it didn't get better.

Kick him out. Try to get him in a psych hold at the hospital. That’ll give you ~72 hours to pack up and take your kids to a DV shelter. Make sure you have all important paperwork like birth certificates, any titles for property (cars, home, etc), social security card/information, etc.

He tried to choke you. Doesn’t matter that he supposedly stopped himself. He admits freely that he wanted to choke you. *Choking is the #1 indicator that he will kill you*. You had to step in to protect your son from him. He knew to get you into a room alone before attacking you. That shows he has control and this wasn’t “spur of the moment” and impulse control issues due to mental illness. *This was deliberate*. This man *will* try to kill you in the very near future, based on his behaviors.

*YOU NEED TO GET OUT*.

Where are you located? We can try and help you find a shelter or somewhere safe to go.

Your reading comprehension is so poor it’s impossible to have an intelligent conversation with you. 

Did you even read what I said? How did you miss the entire paragraph where I said I was appalled that innocent people were being picked up? Never once did I say that everyone who gets picked up deserves it. 

You’re just being angry and hostile and hearing what you want to hear due to your own personal biases. 

Have a day.

Imagine having kids, he already is one. You mental and domestic workload would be tenfold, you’d be miserable. I know firsthand it would eventually break you and he’d set a horrible example of what love looks like, what a healthy partnership is, how to be a functioning member of a household and how to communicate/process feelings. FTLOG please stay gone.

A prenup is to separation as life insurance is to death. No one wants to die, and it would be irresponsible to go without it.

If she doesn't want a prenup, then she wants your properties more than she wants you. Munch on that for a moment.

Totally see where you're coming from

Some people feel that is shows one or both people are not “all in” and they are hesitating. You are essentially planning for a divorce right before you get married. It crushes a bit of the romance for some.

Isn’t that what partners should do?

He isn't your partner 

I’m childish

Yes

Honestly I wouldn't get back with him. Not because he slept around, he can do what he wants when he's single even if that makes you feel insecure but it sounds like it is a little toxic on both sides. Like did he just break it off to go sleep around and now he's ready to settle for you? That's not great and not wanting to cut out people he slept with also not great. And you feeling so insecure that him being with other woman makes you put stipulations on him that aren't reasonable, not great. Start over with someone who wants you and only you, who doesn't make you feel insecure and let this one go. You're only 27. There's plenty of time. I started dating my husband at 29. You shouldn't feel insecure in your own relationship and you don't need to be with someone who is dismissive of your feelings.

Wtf? You two aren’t right for each other. Move on.

Help with what? Either say no and keep your firm personal boundaries and lose relationships or not. Only you can decide what it’s worth to sacrifice for a boundary.

These are a lot of the thoughts I've been having about the situation too.

thank you so much, I feel like every single time I talk to anyone about it everyone just shuts my feelings off like I don't have rights to feel this way

Haha yeah I know. I'm gonna have him hold me accountable. He has a month off work July 9 - August 9 so I'm not gonna miss that

Still doesn't matter. His choices are his choices. Youay not agree but you both are young and it's the time to go out and experience life. Maybe religion is more important to you than him or maybe he just needed time to have fun in life, whatever. But you can't hold that against him. His faith is his issue. Your faith is yours. If you don't like his choices then don't get back together. Be his friend, tell him you don't approve and whatever you need to say but he has to make his own choices. 

If you are together then that is a different thing. He should be dedicated to you only. And not be talking to other girls.

You really sound like your parent's daughter, just saying...

My mom was stuck with someone like this for 20 years. When they divorced, I finally got to see my mom as who she was meant to be. She was 40 and this was 20 years ago now, she's so happy and remarried to a wonderful man I wish was my real dad and she's thriving! You can't even fathom the amazing world waiting for you. It's going to be amazing when you leave him

I know, the worst part is we are both right 🥲 and that’s what makes this so difficult. I appreciate your validation on both sides of this. I don’t know how to bend on this exactly. Maybe we try for a kid in 2nd or 3rd year once we know it’s possible to survive and it’s feasible, maybe we plan to aim for the delivery date when I have breaks off during school but that pushes her timeline and you can’t really predict when the pregnancy will happen

Why are you with this guy?

He told you he wouldn't do it again after you told him how it hurts you. Why do you want to be with someone that would do that to you? Cheating or not, this is for you to evaluate.

My wife and I got something drawn up before we bought a house and got financially tied (not married at this point) and the way we viewed it was taking a fight off the table.
table.
It takes the feeling of they are only with me for money thought away because you know exactly how things will split if shit goes south

I think you misunderstood my post.  We ate in agreement.  No sarcasm

No, you’re not wrong for breaking up for incompatibility. You can break up with him just because you feel like, you don’t any particular reason why.

Believe me - one week, one month, one year from now… you’ll be *so* thankful you broke up with him and are happily living your free, independent life (whether solo or with someone who truly loves and respects you, and isn’t brainwashed by some weird cult!)

You are justifying, because youre saying your parents abhorrent stance exists merely because theyve been misled, as though they themselves are almost victims of deception. The reality is that people like them hold onto that justification of their view because it allows them their racism and hatred with a convenient out. There is no way a rational adult would hold the view your parents have, theyre willing to accept and up this falsehood because its comfortable excuse to allow them their hatred. And when you echo that same BS, youre lending their belief support.

Additionally, we arent talking about whether violent criminals should be deported,  Youre bringing that up to muddy the waters. Regardless, no one should be held in inhumane detention without due process and basic human rights, even those accused of violent crimes.  Frankly you thinking that anyone being picked up by ICE deserves to be in those detention centers is very telling. Its becoming very apparent that you are a lot more like your parents then you want to admit, but I guess the shitty apple doesnt fall far from the racist tree.

And you can whine and cry and try to get mad about comparing ICE detention centers to holocaust camps, but by definition they are concentration camps. You can whine about an unfair comparison but I guess someone like you is comfortable minimizing how horrible these places are.

Your comment became specific to the US when you mentioned alcohol as the 3rd largest cause of death. Also a large percentage of alcohol-related deaths are from vehicle collisions which, as non-drivers, OP and family are already far less likely to be involved in as a result of their own drinking (pedestrians struck by drunk drivers are still considered alcohol-related deaths).

While they all do live in the US it turns out (oddly I did consider including New York City as an exclusion in my initial comment but decided against it), as non-drivers in NYC their alcohol consumption is significantly less likely to be the source of their own demise unless they are drinking enough to cause cirrhosis (a possibility for sure). Additionally, as non-drivers in a walkable city, statistically speaking they walk more and will be in far better health than typical Americans due to the widespread car dependence in the country.

Also the point of OP's post was not necessarily how much OP and family drink, it was about how to talk to the sister who is rudely nagging the family on roughly a weekly basis then getting overly defensive when called out for using bogus/dishonest statistics. Even if OP and family do have a problem, that is not the point of the request.

As a bartender with many friends in recovery, I agree that monitoring one's alcohol consumption with near-scientific scrutiny can be a powerful and useful tool for self-awareness. But socially and culturally the statistics for the whole of the US simply do not apply to other countries or the rare exceptions within the country (NYC and to a lesser extent Chicago, SF, and to an even lesser extent a portion of LA all have notably different relationships with both physical health and car dependency than the rest of the country; alcohol statistics rely heavily on both factors).

Help!!! Give me a man’s perspective on this. I’m so hurt.

Here's your requested perspective.

You're absolutely ridiculous, and your ex deserves much better. Cannot believe I'm seeing a grown ass woman upset that someone who isn't in a relationship with them is butthurt potentially had relationships with other people. You probably get mad when he cheats on you in your dreams too.

Good fucking lord, grow up.

She probably just doesn't want to have sex every two days.

I haven't had to leave a toxic relationship with others (more body image and some psych stuff, self toxicity I am working on). But I can say my late twenties and early thirties are some of the best years so far for myself. I consider everything I do now for 85 year old me. Be it getting stronger or resting properly after an injury, showing kindness.  

All that to say, you have recognized it is time to leave. It is hard, it may take a few attempts but you can do it. Consider it a gift for your 30 year old self, or something in the near future. Then consider how many happy memories and adventures you'll have during/after leaving this toxic man for your 85 year old self to enjoy.  

The unknown is new and it may be bumpy - staying will only hurt more. I'll leave more specific advice from those who have left bad situations more akin to yours. I hope to offer some support though. You got this.

Another reason to NOT get back with him. You are second choice, he played the field and realized it's all land mines and now he wants to come back to you.

You weren't partners though. You had no reason to tell him who he couldn't be with. 

Did you sleep with anyone while you were apart?

Eh what's done is done. An ex is an ex for a reason. You have boundaries and he broke them. Even if you were broken up, he is still free to do whatever just like you. 
I'd personally move on. It's never the same. Try dating around for a bit, you'll probably meet someone better.

You were broke up. Not together. On a break. You can't tell someone not to see other people 'just in case' we wanna get back together. It doesn't work that way. How long was he supposed to wait and see? Even if he was just sleeping with them, still you don't get to make that call. Either you want to try again or you don't. But he was NOT with you so whatever he did, was his choice and he did nothing wrong. You can't hold that against him.

Dudes usually know what they want in life by the time their 30.... usually

I didn't read the age of the dude you were talking about and assumed he was like early 20's.

If he's still playing games at 30 idk what to tell you. Unless that's the kinda relationship you desire imo that sounds exhausting

will he tho because I want to do it too but I know for a fact there are other girls too

No only will you get over him, you will be shocked at how much happier you are without him. You’ve never been an adult on your own. That can be a scary thing to face, but not being abused constantly will be liberating.

Firstly, if it’s that important to you then don’t get back together. Secondly, I personally think why should it matter if you were broken up? I think it’d be different if y’all were on a break or something maybe. And I don’t know your exact situation but if you were worried about specific girls when y’all were in an LDR, then you might be too insecure to start dating again or he’s given you reason to feel insecure about them, which is also a problem. I think y’all should stay broken up based off this

I’m childish for wanting him to hold himself to a higher standard? Isn’t that what partners should do?

That's literally what you need to do, unless you are ok with participating in a booty call dynamic.

It doesn’t matter that you didn’t want to break up, you do not get to set rules about what he can and can’t do while you are split up. Now, you can be upset and insecure about it if you want, but that’s a you problem, not a him problem. He did not owe you celibacy.

I’m of the opinion I deal with my family, he deals with his. We then support the other’s positions. 

While you may not like it, your husband’s position is he wants to help them when he can. Time to accept it, and support your husband the best you can. 

Telling him how to handle his family isn’t going to be something that is helpful - especially if he isn’t asking for your advice on the subject. And he doesn’t appear to be asking your opinion on the subject.

Maybe don’t get back together with this dude.

I think you’re being g ridiculously unreasonable and insecure, but like, you said that if he wanted to get back together ever you needed him to not sleep around. He slept around. So, like, don’t get back together.

I think it was unfair for you to demand that he stay faithful to you while broken up. Say you two had never dated before and he had a sexual past with these women...would you be open to dating him then? Were you both virgins when you first started dating? How do you even know about his escapades if he isn't the one that told you? I think the fact that he wants to be with you now that distance isn't an issue is actually a good sign. Were there any other issues besides the distance before? And if so, are those issues resolved now?

I think a lot depends on what kind of prenup was actually being discussed. Protecting assets from before the relationship is very different from leaving a spouse with nothing after years of supporting the business and family

Based in what you described he probably sees it as casual hookup only and will likely continue that pattern when you get back

I definitely won’t if given another chance. I don’t make mistakes twice.

as i said i’m new to this and all i want now is sex nothing more

I work in long-term care, and this very much sounds like the early stages of dementia to me which is not at all uncommon among diabetics of that generation who often spent the early part of their life with inadequate blood sugar control. 
You need to start documenting these episodes and delusions and call his Dr before his next appointment. 
Does it seem to be worse in the evening than it is earlier in the day?

the hardest part is breaking that pattern youve been in for so long but yeah it does get better once youre actually out. i watched my sister go through something really similar with her ex and she kept going back like 4 times before it finally stuck

  
what helped her was blocking him on everything and staying at our parents house for couple weeks so she wouldnt be tempted to go back when she felt weak. also she started therapy which was huge because she realized how much she had been making excuses for his behavior

  
being with someone since you were 16 makes it feel like you dont know who you are without them but thats exactly why you need to leave and figure that out. my sister said the first few months were really tough but after like 6 months she started feeling like herself again and now shes way happier with someone who actually treats her right

  
the texting other women thing alone should be enough reason to walk away permanently. you deserve someone who doesnt make you question your own reality or play games with your emotions like that

Experiencing an emotional attachment to someone you had sex with, particularly your first experience, is what we used to call "normal." 

It's not easy to accept that you were just a body to them, but you can't control how anyone else feels. You must accept it, and move on, and maybe be a little more protective of your feelings in the future.

Good Luck and Gods Blessings.

That’s what I’m trying to figure out. I can only say so much & I want to show thru my actions that this would never happen again. & We have mentioned that before (therapy) just as a reason to prevent anything bad happening before it happens.

As an old millennial I want to apologize on behalf of my generation for enabling people to doing self-absorbed clownish horseshit in their relationships and pretend it’s okay by calling it “boundaries”.

You have zero say in who your ex fucks when you’re broken up. None. Sorry.

What you *do* have a say in is whether or not YOU want to be back in this relationship now, after learning of your ex’s recent history. And it sounds like you know it would be a bad idea.

So don’t get back with your ex. Have a hard conversation, be sad for a while, and move on.

I don't know if you're being sarcastic, but honestly they are right. If you're mature enough to know your boundaries, you should be mature enough to acknowledge that your demands don't have to be met. Especially by someone not with you for a year. 

The whole "he has a lust problem" and "doesn't want to do what he has to to get over it" is ridiculous. He was a single guy out dating. He has the right to live his life without you harping on him and holding it over his head. 

If you can't get over that he saw other people, move on. If you think his values don't align to yours, move on. If your almost 30, acting childish, seek therapy and then move on.

She can become a younger mom, or a stay at home mom, or raise kids with you. She can’t do all three.

Often times you're not the one doing the wrecking (hopefully). Wearing a seatbelt doesn't stop someone who ran the red light from T-boning you when you had the right of way. So that's not a good comparison.

Girl, go. He treats you like an option while you treat him like a priority.

I don’t at all. I want a wife & kids of my own.

Probably to justify the demand of celibacy

Did you have a physical relationship with him when you were dating? Tisk tisk practicing Catholic lol

Are you a woman of your word? If so, keep your word.

You have been together 7 months, I think you both need to really pump the breaks on the baby conversation. Its reasonable to establish general timelines, and your 5-year timeline seems do-able. I'm 33 (the age your GF will be in 5 years) so I totally get the panic of losing time, but it's far from impossible to have a child in your 30s. 

You barely know one another yet, you should be enjoying this time getting to know one another instead of diving a few chapters ahead. You don't even know if you will be engaged or married in a year, let alone have a baby on the horizon.

With all that being said, if you are in the US I think you may struggle on one income if you have a child sooner than later. My husband and I live in a very HCOL area and make ove $200k, childless, and its still hard to put money away. We save each month but with a child those savings would be obliterated. You are not wrong for wanting to get your career in check first, especially if her goal is to stay at home and apparently go to Pilates and get her nails done? I don't know if that was just being anecdotal or if she will actually expect that, if so you have a lot to save for. My Pilates membership is $225/mo and a fresh nail set is $65 + tip.

If you don't have help nearby, you will absolutely pay a LOT for childcare, and it will be hard for her to do alone 24/7. Mom burnout is real when you don't have any help. Its not impossible and tons of moms absolutely kill it, but you are not wrong for being scared that she will not be happy. I think its considerate to think of her, a lot of husbands won't consider how their wife will feel at home.

All this to say, I think you should curb baby talk for a year or so. If she cannot wait you may be incompatible. Chemistry doesn't mean compatibility long-term. There are plenty of people you can have chemistry with but if you disagree on a huge, fundamental issue you are setting yourselves up for a really frustrating relationship.

Strangulation attempts are the number one precursor to Intimate Partner Homicide. If you don't want to die, LEAVE NOW.

Your husband's parents have treated him like the second-class child all his life.  And his sister wants to treat him that way, too.  His father's will is one more slap in the face.  Sure, parents have their favorites, but they should be as fair as possible with their kids.  Your husband's parents seem to want to rub his nose in the dirt.  Of course this hurts his feelings, so he acts like it doesn't affect him.  But it does.    

Sister makes aggressive demands that he maintain the property that will be left to her.   Under the circumstances, this is ridiculous.  If she wants your husband to maintain the property, she should offer to sign a contract agreeing to split the proceeds of the sale with him.  If she doesn't want to do that, she should either maintain the property herself or hire someone to do it.  By dumping the responsibility on your husband, she is treating him the same way his parents did.  

Given sister's aggressive demands, your husband is dreaming if he thinks she will share any of the proceeds from the sale of the house with him.

You can be a silent partner and collect your checks or have him buy you out or you buy him out.  Put the house up for sale and get away from him.

Just because he was raised in an abusive home does not give him the right to abuse you.  

Sadly, you have never fixed him.  You may provide him with a sense of security when you are in each other’s presence, but the minute that he is gone he reverts to self destructive habits.  

It doesn’t sound like this is a new thing for him.  So, this is probably not his first time calling an escort.  He has no problem spending your household finances to pay for sex with someone that is not his wife.

You sound very caring and very worried about him.  Please take some time to worry about you.  As the saying goes, don’t set yourself on fire to keep someone else warm.  While he is playing the victim, chances are he is still contacting escorts and other women while in the living room pretending to feel sorry for himself.

You deserve to be happy and safe in a relationship/marriage.  This is not it.

Why do you even wanna be with this dude? Yeah, you will feel like shit the whole time if you get back with him...You are right. Literally dont bother with this guy. With all due respect, who cares what he wants? Move on and find someone you are actually compatible with.

During the marriage your partner is benefitting from the income and the shared assets that were built on the back of the work you put in prior to the marriage & if a divorce happens where alimony is required for a certain period that’s the compensation accounting for time out of the workforce. 

It doesn’t mean they own 50%, 40%, 25%… of the skills you acquired that were the source of your income. It doesn’t them decision making power on how your skills are used, it doesn’t mean you have buy the ownership of your skills back in order to use them, that they can sell their ownership of your skills to another party or force a situation where you have to sell your skills & income from them. 

If that was the case how would you apply that to say a SAHP? After a split and assets are divided would the other person own a percentage of their household labour? 

Is there a value attached to being able to be a stay at home parent because of the “sacrifices” their partner made & how is that value accounted for in what they owe their partner?

Btw, we are both practicing Catholics.

Did you have pre-marital sex during your relationship?  I'm confused why being Catholic was brought up?

you're saying it like it's easy

I was around 30, they were in their late 20s.

He's going to kill you. Strangulation is the number one indicator that abuse will turn deadly. He's going to kill you.

He might contact you for more sex I guess, but he doesn't seem to be "seeing you" now.  He's not treating you well.  He didn't treat you well as a friend during the pregnancy scare and it doesn't seem like he sees you as anything but a convenient source of sex. 

Frankly, it also doesn't sound like you actually like him very much either - if he has any good traits, it doesn't come through in what you've written. 

If I were you, I'd lose this guy's number.  There's a lot of guys out there.  You'll find someone you like, who also likes you.

You clearly want to be single. Leave her alone.

He’s very immature, and the irony is that he’ll likely throw it in your face that you made him leave as proof of how you mistreat him next time y’all fight (and there will be a next time). I think you gotta cut this one loose.

Sweetie, you’re not *just* incompatible. He’s a straight up bad person. Dump this POS.

Sometimes yes but it feels like there’s less and less of those moments. Yes I thought so as well, I have been trying to step back and make it less of a topic however it becomes difficult as any mention of anything in that way becomes a direct argument. 

Regarding other intimate moments, no it doesn’t.   
Because in that moment all I want is those exact connections. If I try it’s usually only try make an advancement in the evening when we in bed. 

My question to you is why would she feel the need to constantly reject me ?

You're pretty much just a hookup to him from the sound of it.  
If he's only calling you for sex and not interested in spending time with you otherwise, or cares about you on a personal level, that's not how you would treat someone you want to be in a relationship with is it?

Emotional cheating is cheating.

If it feels like you have to compete with another woman for his attention, you should let her "win".   He's no prize.

If you know yourself well enough to know this isn’t something you’d get over, then there’s nothing left to consider. You will stay broken up.

Super helpful thanks!

You're a temporary hookup. Move on.

Should you be insecure? No. 

Should you stay with this dude? No. You argued even when you weren’t together. You’re obviously not a good match. 

Should you attempt to police behavior from someone you’re not even dating in the future? Also, No.

I know you are joking and trying to silly. But I don’t use AI for my job or on my personal time. 

I’m against it for a ton of reasons. The environmental aspects, predatory nature of the data centers, and most of it is slop and gets attorneys in trouble with the Courts if they try to use it.

Explaining does not equal justifying. Again, reading comprehension is key. I don’t agree with them bc I haven’t fallen for the misinformation, I don’t know how many times I have to repeat myself.

That's a good point. We usually talk in terms of lease agreements (so this being a 6-month plan ig) but I can see how that feels like rushing things. 

At the same time, I dont know if I can do this for another 3-5 years, and their response of not even knowing what they want in 6-months is very concerning. 

I will try this approach though. Thank you :)

When we first met we dove head first into this. She had talked about her desire for having kids and timeline and how she needs a provider man and wants to stay at home and I was all for it and said this sounds great. But as the months went on, I had learned providing is very expensive and not doable with my salary and her timeline. Courting her with vacations and fine dining and putting in all the effort financially while trying to save up for financial stability in the future is not something you can do on a 80,000 a year salary. This is why where we are at today. Not because she chose the wrong man or didn’t bring it up sooner. It’s because I tried, and I was not able to do the things she needed while also being able to save up enough financially for our future. So I can want with everything in my heart to be that way, but there is a difference between me playing along knowing in 2 years there’s not a chance of it actually happening, and being real with her and having these conversations about going back to school and delaying things as a result of the unfortunate but realistic financial needs to have the life we desire

You won’t be able to move past this it sounds like whether or not it was reasonable to impose these rules or not. You asked and he didn’t comply. This is not the guy for you…let him go

That was extremely unclear. You might want to edit and add the /s. This is Reddit, there absolutely exist people who would say what you did without any irony at all.

Put the date of the wedding off for a couple of years and give yourself a chance to talk out whether you are actually compatible with each other.  It sounds like you are overdue for a discussion on gender roles and future hopes and dreams.

You answered your own question. You know yourself and you won't be able to get past this. This relationship is done for you. Don't waste time and energy on this when you're exhibiting such clarity already.

what someone does when you aren't in a relationship isn't your business. if you're broken up, his sex life isn't any of your business, and vice versa.

it is absurd to think you can control someone, especially after you're not in a relationship anymore.

don't be with this man. you don't trust him, so don't date him. don't date people you don't trust, or who don't trust you.

go to therapy for your deep insecurity problems, and don't date anyone until you've overcome those insecurities. until you do, every relationship you have will fail.

I had one boundary when we broke up

a boundary is a rule you set for *yourself*. a boundary is not a rule you set for someone else. it is not "power word you have to do as i say/want", it is a rule you set for yourself. "i won't do xyz" **is** a boundary. "you can't do xyz" is **not a boundary**, it's controlling behaviour.

Sometimes breakups are hard even when they are necessary. You can love someone and still choose to no longer be with them for valid reasons. It doesn’t mean there won’t be any. heartbreak

It’s time to move on for yourself. He is simply stringing you along bc it’s familiar and easy, he sees you as a safety net bc you show him that you will take him back again and again. He doesn’t love you bc someone who actually wants a future with you and is in love with you will not give you mix signals like this. You are so young and there are people that you will meet along the way in life that will show you what it means to actually be treated with care and love. I wish you the best of luck!

Well, you broke up. Presumably there were reasons for that. Are they resolved? Was the distance the only reason?

You told him, essentially, “if you sleep with anyone else we’re never getting back together”. He’s slept with other people. Are you going to stick to what you told him? If not, what was your motive for saying it? Do you see it as a mistake, and are you confident you won’t repeat it? Or was it a gambit to get him to do what you wanted, and since it didn’t work, it can now be abandoned?

It’s unclear what you know, how you know it, and what he’s told you. You simultaneously talk about him disclosing and not. If this is something you told him was a dealbreaker and he’s specifically concealing it, that’s a problem in itself. 

\> His lust problems have always been an issue, but he doesn’t seem like he’s willing to do the things he needs to do to grow out of them.

Ugh. Don’t date people you describe as having “lust problems”. That’s more about you than him, but it’s the same advice regardless.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I'd forgive you, but this comment is terribly hard to follow, so I assume you used AI to write it.  Can you put a tl;dr summary at the bottom?

Make sure you agree on money, kids, religion, and in-laws. If it's not yes, it's no.

I don't think you can really set demands on someone you're not together with about who they can and cannot see, be physical with, etc. All you can do now is make a choice about whether you can be ok with it or if this is something that prevents you from getting back together.

LMAO, way to beat the odds😅. I should have written near-zero percent, I guess.

Yeah.. I’ll tell him. I can’t reverse what’s already done

This whole situations sounds so unnecessarily dramatic. Just move on.

If your conversations are only “let move right now” and “let’s move away,” that’s not really fair for smart decision making. Have you guys sat down at a totally chill time and talked through your 3-5 year plan?

Your gut feeling is telling you something important and you should listen to it. The fact that your partner proposed without honoring your clear request about living together first is a pretty big red flag - it shows they're willing to override your boundaries when it comes to major life decisions

  
Moving in together first was a smart idea and you were right to want that. Getting engaged while you're still figuring out basic compatibility seems backwards. The crying during the proposal, the sleepless nights, the anxiety - your body is trying to tell you something

  
I'd suggest having a conversation about postponing any wedding planning until you've lived together for at least a year. A real engagement shouldn't feel this stressful or wrong. If your partner truly loves you they should want you to feel confident and excited about marrying them, not pressured into it. The whole thing about kids is another huge conversation you two need to work through before making any permanent commitments

  
Don't let your mom or anyone else pressure you into a life-altering decision when you're having doubts. Better to slow things down now than end up divorced later because you ignored every warning sign your instincts gave you

Ahhh yeah, I think he would benefit from that as well.

This is very helpful, thank you!

If you’ve talked to him about it prior, told him it’s hurting you, and he is STILL hiding it….
NEXT!
you deserve so much better. Sneaky behavior is, well, sneaky. You don’t need a reason to break up with someone. Don’t let him guilt trip you into staying because you trusted your gut. I’m sorry, OP

Sorry, I have never heard of “Family Constellation.” I guess I’m an old fart now, because that’s a first for me.

Pretty much this, he didn't owe you celibacy during the breakup but now that he wants back in he should be cutting contact with those people if he's serious

  
The real issue here is you already know he won't do what you need to feel secure and you're setting yourself up to police his friendships which never works out well

Thats idiotic to place stipulations on someone ur broken up with, but i hear where you’re coming from and thats why i have never nor would i ever go back to an ex… ever. Past is in the past let it lie. Move on to new prospects.

I'm assuming you used AI to write this, because this comment is terribly hard to follow.  Can you put a tl;dr summary at the bottom?  Kthx and stuff.

She's dating a man younger than her which means she needs to be more flexible than what is ideal for her biological clock and SAHM dreams

Dear Lord, you are nearly 30 years old, please learn how to use commas. Those are some serious run-on sentences.

He probably needs to take a break from porn in general. Maybe spending a little too much time with it.  
But I wouldn't call this cheating. It's just masturbation. Doesn't mean much.     
That this girl looks different from you doesn't matter, if she was his girlfriend he would be jerking off to someone else, maybe even someone who looks more like you.

I talked to my mom, she said it'd be unfair to tell this to my partner.

I disagree with your mom on this. If you intend to get married, you can and should be able to talk about these things. 

Also remember that an engagement is not any kind of legal contract. You can break it just as easily as you can break up with a boyfriend. Sure I'd recommend figuring out if you're compatible for marriage before getting engaged, but it's not like you've entered some contract you can't get out of, ya know? 

*Talk* to your partner. If you're not on the same page, then it's better you figure it out now than after you're married.

You are 100%  explaining and justifying their stances, so dont try to walk it back. And you might not like it, but people being picked up by ICE are being put in facilities that are by definition concentration camps. 

And again, you might not like it, but one of the most common refrains from the German public after WW2 was that they thought only dangerous criminals were put in the camps. 

Get all pissy if you want, but youre walking right in those same footsteps.

Be careful not to mistake chemistry with compatibility. You have a fundamental mismatch here in your life paths and goals. Your soulmate wouldn't be so different in this regard. All your concerns are completely correct, her timeline is unreasonable and she chose the wrong man if this was her timeline. I don't understand why she was dating 25 year olds early in their career if she had such a strict timeline, nor why she didn't bring it up sooner

I didn’t want to break up. I was against it. And we never stopped talking. We even continued to argue during most of it.

The shocking thing is: he actually said that it was on purpose. And of course said that it was because his trauma etc. But still.. I could never hurt my partner with his past or anything

I’m having trouble following this idea? 

What does “till death due us part” mean to you?

okay weird question but do you have facial hair? if so it could’ve caused irritation. i had a friend that went through something similar

What is "complex" about this situation? You are incompatible, and he's actually a jerk.

When you break up with someone, it is ridiculous to place a requirement on them that they can't see anyone else while you're broken up.

It IS reasonable that he shouldn't have any contact with these hookups if he wants to get back together.

But if you don't want your partner hooking up with other people, don't break up.

I’m fine with that. But that’s what a prenup is for. 

The whole thread started because a prenup can be considered offensive if one party who considers marriage as a contract with vows of “till death due us part”. 

As long as both parties are cool with the contract, go nuts. But a lot of people,  and a lot of law, treat marriage as a life long commitment. Don’t get surprised if your prospective fiancé holds marriage in the same regard.

It just usually feels better single:D Thank u for your support!!

Yeah, don’t date people who are mean to you.

It really doesn’t matter whether or not they promise change. The fact that they are mean to you, *on purpose*, is reason enough to leave. You don’t owe them infinite chances to figure out how to not say cruel things to you. They can figure that out while they’re single.

You can't give her what you can't give her.  You've been honest that you won't be able to give her the stay at home motherhood she wants on the timeline she wants.  If that's truly a deal breaker for her, then it's best to go your separate ways.

Remember you are half of this relationship.  Your wants and dreams are just as important as hers.  You say she's your soul mate, but the way she's talking makes it seem like she considers you nothing more than a means to play out her motherhood fantasies.

In the mean time, for the love of god, don't let her baby trap you.  Condoms, every time.

I don’t think so? I did find out a year ago though that I am on the autism spectrum. I also have ptsd from my childhood (not sexual abuse related)

I don’t give a fuck what he or his family believes. He REGULARLY violates your privacy????? Girl find the exit promptly. No partner should EVER violate your privacy, no matter how suspicious they are of anything. They should ask you or accuse you and roll the dice.

If you feel peaceful already, imagine never having to deal with him ever again. I promise you your life will be exponentially better without him in it. Good riddance!

Maybe worth a try, for both of you, just be a little more touchy feely, add some fun throughout the day.  
I feel like it's easy to get to this state easily where sex feels like a bit of a chore. Because you're starting from scratch every time, you go from being roommates, you load the dishwasher, you watch a movie, and now you're thinking about all the work you both need to do to get in the mood when you're already tired so you end up just going to bed and getting to sleep, rub one out in the morning and go to work.    

Keep the engine warm.

Fair point. I feel like I’m pretty chill with life and let it unfold as it does, and I feel that I’d trust everything works out biologically as I’d only be 33 but that means nothing coming from me it’s not my biology nor my experience

I did, and it feels nice to study in peace. Actually.. it just feels nice alone.. he said he is scared that I’ll break up if he’s not here to “prove”. Turns out he was right cause I feel better without him. Of course I miss our routine but the stress? Nah..

Is it possible you’re somewhere on the asexual spectrum? Have you ever desired partnered sex, or have you always felt kind of ambiguous towards it?

I have a friend who is asexual but does have sex, mostly because his partner wants/needs it and he does enjoy it as an activity, but he has no inherent drive for it. He would always rather be doing something else basically. Which sounds similar to you, perhaps?

I think there's this cultural concept that once you're in a relationship, partnered sex should be able to fulfill everything you need as a sexual being. But I don't see it that way. Your sexual relationship with yourself is in fact another relationship you have, and it isn't wrong for that to sometimes be where your focus is. 

If your rejections are causing relationship problems, it may be worth digging into that more with your partner. (Though even if your rejections are distressing to your partner, I don't believe that automatically means you should masturbate less...it just means there's stuff about how your sexual relationship works to discuss.) 

Regardless of whether you're both ultimately okay with the amount of partnered sex you're having, I don't think you need to feel guilty about not always wanting to direct your sexual energy at your partner. Partnered sex requires investments of thought, attention, and emotional energy...and the capacity to make that investment does not always line up perfectly with horniness.

You two need to sit down and have a very honest and open discussion about the timeline of your relationship, and you need to clear up any incorrect assumptions he made.

You feel bad because he's manipulated you into feelings that way. Please don't jeopardize your education for him. Put yourself first.

Thanks for your feedback. I think the same about the time but she is strongly positioned that she doesn’t want to wait 5 years to be a mom. I don’t know. The way I see it is people wait their whole lives to be a mom and sometimes they don’t meet the right person. She has her person but it sounds like she is willing to give that up, maybe I am wording this or interpreting it incorrectly, but it feels like she is choosing early motherhood over life with me. 

Also I should have worded that differently about education, it is something I do want for myself, and also at the same time will greatly help for financially supporting a child and wife.

And to follow up on that question - perhaps dont use your vibrator for a while.  Does the idea of sex feel like a chore?

Do you both have intimate moments together that don't lead to sex? From your post you say you want it every other day, which can be overwhelming for someone. She might feel pressured to meet your sexual needs, and pressure never makes for a good sexual encounter. 

When you hold hands, kiss, cuddle, hold each other, etc, does it usually turn into you asking for sex? If so, she may have an aversion to intimacy because she's afraid it will turn into a stressful situation where she has to reject your sexual advances, which in turn means that her need to feel safe and loved first is not being nurtured.

Not really. Like he smacks my butt and I’ll grab his thigh but we don’t dirty talk or anything. 

I’ll give it to him he did try to dirty talk over text years ago but I admittedly didn’t give him much back. So he stopped.

He is incredibly selfish. Dump him and find a decent partner. That shit is actually Wilddd

Imagine me… couldn’t happen at a better time.. just before my finals..:( and of course I feel bad for sending him away even after being treated like this

The above submission has been removed because our AutoModerator has found that your post may be dealing with rape or sexual abuse in some way. If you are seeking direct advice on dealing with such a situation (or are asking if something constitutes rape), we ask that you please post instead to /r/rape, /r/rapecounseling, or /r/secondary_survivors (if someone you know has been abused). These communities have dedicated userbases that can provide and better guarantee the sort of sensitivity, support, and protection that may not be available here in /r/relationships. Please understand that you have done nothing wrong in posting here in the first place. We hope you understand that we are trying to make sure you get the best possible help available and give you the benefit of our experience in moderating this subreddit.  If you believe you are receiving this message in error, please message the moderators for reapproval.

Click here (once) to request reapproval and then click send **once** only.

The reapproval is manual, so send a **single request** only. Multiple requests do not mean faster approval, in fact they may clog the modqueue and result in reapprovals taking even more time.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Are you guys sexual and flirty together outside of sex?  
Or is it just either you're having sex or basically not touching at all?

Family constellation therapy is labelled a cult in my country. From what I gather, it's deeply misogynistic. Please be careful, combined with the many many red flags here, it sounds like a shitty relationship backed by abuser ideology

Another issue is that whenever I complain about not spending enough quality time together, he’ll suddenly suggest a date, a movie, or a trip after we’ve already had multiple arguments about it. By that point, I’m so exhausted from asking that I don’t even want to go anymore, and then he says I’m rejecting his efforts.

It just sounds like you want him to be someone he isn't which is why when he finally gives you what you want, you don't want it anymore. Some people say that love is a verb and that might be why the words fall flat for you. 

I guess the question is why are you hanging onto this relationship? If you can clearly see that this guy is not giving you what you need.

I actually saw how this pattern started. In his childhood videos, he always did something bad and when he saw that the adults started to get angry, he started acting nice and give little kisses to his grandma,mother etc.. then did something bad again. Maybe I’m dramatic but it seems like the same thing. It’s just sad to see this side of him after 1 year. When he says “he is nothing like this”, I just look at him and think “ahha.. of course”

Thank you for the help, I completely understand what you’re saying.

I'm exhausted just READING this, never mind living with it. Get rid of this asshole.

If you’re sitting to yourself and wonder how could she sleep with both it’s cause before this I got raped by someone who I thought was my friend and it made me emotionally detached when it came to sex. And your comment is just mean and insane wth. The end is unnecessary and he would never do that.

It’s been almost 7 months now. It was one of those connections where the first day we met we fell in love and have been ever since. She is such a special woman. Anyway, it was a few months of being in the relationship where I had realized if we want to do this stay at home mom thing, I need a higher income. Originally the timeline was something that I was like yeah ok we could do this but life’s so expensive and the way the dynamic is, I am responsible for her and the baby financially and that is something you just can’t do on 35 dollars an hour these days, unless you want to scrape by without our regular vacations we do and higher quality of life we currently have.

Yes I agree and understand that, I have been trying to give it space and time but it’s been over a year now and it’s the same issue recurring. She usually says  to me that all I care about is sex, that i only want to date her to sleep with her or that she just does not want to have sex.

Sorry girl edited it. It definitly was cheating I’m not gonna deny it but idk

There's 8 billion people on the planet. He is not your only option.

Your husband would benefit from therapy to process the effect of parental emotional immaturity, learn when and how to say no, and process the inevitable hurt that will come when all he gets is a circle saw...this is work you can't do for him.

Go get tested just in case, it could just be a UTI, but also cold sores (herpes) can be dormant for a long time and become active randomly. So it doesn’t require cheating if it was already dormant in either of your systems. Also keep in mind it can spread from genitalia to mouth and visa versa.

Then u are with the wrong person

Huh? Which is it because, from your post

I didn’t tell him I had a boyfriend

You're right, but think about it like this. 

If your husband acknowledges that he's being taken advantage of by his family, he has to admit that, on some level, he's a victim. It's clear he's not the favourite, but it's a lot harder to acknowledge when you're the one who's being walked all over. Especially for men who've internalized that enduring hardship is a mark of a good/strong man, and not doing so would make him "weak" in some vague, hard to pin down way. 

There's not a lot you can do to logic or argue someone out of this viewpoint. Trying further will probably make him double down and build a rift between you two. 

What you can do, is point out every time his family does something shitty. Use as neutral a tone as you can. Don't belabour it. Just "oh, it's not very nice that your sister didn't thank you for doing that" and move on. Over time, if you're lucky, something may jog for your husband. But this sort of thing is hard to unpack and there's a good chance your husband will never be willing to do the emotional labour to pull away from his role as family scapegoat. 

Good luck.

Work on your reading comprehension. I wasn’t defending them I was explaining what they believe and why they don’t think it’s wrong.

Ok but that has nothing to do with your previous point, which was “of course people are offended, they make a ‘till death do us part’ vow”.

But no they don’t, not really. 

So your entire original premise is moot.

People here really have a hard time following an idea through.

Pharmacy technician, hairstylist

Smdh - it’s obvious you didn’t care in the few months together as you was still banging the other one - if you care about someone how can you go lay down and give yourself to another - I already know your not going to confess cause your actions at the beginning of the relationship sneaking around - I would leave you if I found this out or was told - I could never trust or believe you again - to be honest I would do all crazy type of sexual stuff with you then leave you and let you cry and feel sorry for yourself - gl

You can't, that's what we are trying to tell you here.

When he met me he knew I was in a relationship and still pursued me and moved forward

You don't have deep feelings for him, this is all still entirely ego driven. His silence is driving you crazy because it hurts your ego that he isn't dropping everything to come running back to you after you were a terrible friend.

Leave him alone.

This is pretty much as cliche as it gets. Classic abuse cycle.  
You get abuse, abuse, abuse. When it looks like you might be starting to get enough, that you might actually leave, then he switches it up. Because if you leave then who's gonna be there to take all his shit out on?   
There's no growth, it's control. It's keeping your torture victim from bleeding out so you can keep torturing.

That's what I mean when I say the relationship is built on a lie. He is only with you because you lied to him.

No, the selfish thing is keeping it. He deserves to know and has made it pretty clear that he isn't the "sweep it under the rug" type of dude.

Cheating is cheating. 

You hid the fact you were not single when you met him. You need to tell your boyfriend you were not exclusive until X date. And you need to brace for the possibility he breaks up with you.

Prenups are seatbelts.

I love awful analogies.

The law already exists that ensures that both parties will get an equitable exit from the relationship. The person asking for a prenup is saying "splitting it equitably, if we divorce, is unfair to me".

If it has to be a seatbelt, he's taking a portion of the fabric of her seatbelt to reinforce his own.

Perhaps it's unfortunate, but unilaterally requesting a prenup is absolutely a signal of two things: I have more things of physical value than you, and I don't trust you to stay with me or to recognize the first point in our divorce proceedings if you do leave. This is going to be insulting to nearly anyone.

Hsv innoculation is more than a day.

Both is a no but I don’t wanna lose him I was dumb and 18 when I made the mistake and coming out of a pretty abusive relationship which is why I gave myself a little grace

Yes I moved into his home, my stuff is currently still there he isn’t pushing me out but is urging it be stored elsewhere. 
I’m just trying to qualm my worries and what ifs

And you can make any house a home 🫠also totally know how wrong I am just trying to make a joke

These are good points, thank you!

Some of the people in this thread need a reality check. OP, you do not need to put her biological clock ahead of your very real concerns. She is only 28. 33 is still young and very much still prime years for being a mother. 

You haven't been together that long. She wants you to be the sole breadwinner. She wants too much from you.

Absolutely do not not get your education because she wants a kid.

You should probably move on to someone more compatible who wants the same timeline that you want.

One of my best relationships was with a girl who never had a boyfriend before. She was super sweet and a genuinley nice person. Clear and concise communication is the key.

I didn’t add the other part to the comment cause I’m a little emotional but I totally understand what you’re saying and that may need to be the path forward. I think sometimes I wonder if it’s selfish to tell him and get the guilt off of me and destroy him or selfish to keep it.

I'm sorry this is a bit immature for a 30 year old. All you can do is hope she hears your explanation, be honest you were insecure. Either way this is a lesson learned.

Girlie’s getting fried in these comments, so now she’s switching it up to “worrying about him” and maybe he “got into an accident” hence why he needs to check in lol. 

Though if he’s working, then what are you doing all day that leave you with so much mental space to worry about something as small as this?

Its a lie the size of a house though. :(

Of course it's unfair. But he's not mad about it, and he's not taking anything away from you. Consider it a hobby. If not this then probably he'd spend his day off on some other type of project.  

You're trying to spark some resentment in him that probably isn't there in the first place. This has been the family dynamic since forever, he's the big brother who works for shit and the little sister gets things handed to her.    
And honestly I don't think hubby is getting the losing end of the stick, because here the sister just got a whole house for free and she's still helpless while he has the skills and drive to maintain it.

Do you think your bf would have dated you in the first place if he knew you were still sleeping with your ex?

Do you think he'd stay with you now if you told him?

Probably not dude. You guys had a bad arguement and your immediate reaction was, “I better find a rebound”.

Take that as a sign you weren’t really that invested to begin with and stop wasting both of your time.

There are many, many reasons why someone in a relationship might not want to have sex with their partner. Stress, trauma, changing dynamics, periods of low libido, not feeling fulfilled in some way, etc. What does she say when you ask why she doesn't want to have sex?

Then your choice now is to be selfish or not be selfish. I hope you make the right choice.

So, what are you doing to make sure you don't do the same thing the next time you have an argument?

Trust takes time to rebuild, but it also takes showing up and making changes to your behavior. Right now, she doesn't have any reason to trust you. You went on a dating app and lied about it.

You should both also be working on whatever issues are leading to these bad arguments. It sounds like you could benefit from couples counseling.

That first line is an absolute banger omg

It’s not built on it there’s just one lie in the mix but I get what you’re saying

I don’t want to confess cause I love him now and the relationship will end. He’s made it clear he’ll leave me if something like this happens. But thank you for the advice.

Bingo. A prenup is really just a safeguard for both parties. I think it’s a good thing to  come to these conclusions and to divide things up when you’re not angry, if it ever came to that.

I wish he didn’t unblock you. Now that he proved his worth you recognise him romantically? This has to be a joke. Do you realise what you sound like? You dont deserve him, you treated him like shit. Stop playing with his mind and leave him be. You 100% will hurt him again

Did he tell you about the oil? Because if so, I expect he would update you about any other relevant thing that happens. No news is good news.

Because it's only fair to him. I'd wanna know.you withholding it just cause *you* wouldn't is selfish and I bet you five bucks that 95% of why you don't want to is because you don't want to confess. Not because you'd never wanna know.

We all make mistakes. Even in our 30s, 40s, 50s. But what makes you mentally and emotionally strong is when you choose to say "hey, I fucked up" and accept whatever the consequences of that are. You're not the devil. But if you don't tell him, he will probably find out somehow somewhere. And it'll definitely be the end of the relationship anyway.

The problem is there’s some sexual abuse mixed in the timeline and looking back I don’t think I ever would have been able to handle the situation correctly. 
And it will destroy him and the relationship that has been made clear and I truly can’t predict how it will come out cause the only people who know are my parents and they see how happy I am and wouldn’t screw it. 

I sleep at night fine the only occasional thing is I feel guilty that I didn’t love him as much as I do now then. But that’s not guilt for cheating which also makes me feel guilty that I can write it off.

Personally I dont really think a relationship built on lies is worthwhile.

I paid for the down payment on the house me and him bought together not the one with his mom. When I talk to him he says He wants to stop helping his family so much. And his mom says she will be able to start paying for the house by herself in a year. After she pays off her house in another country. And she says she will be able to pay him back and buy the house off him. But I don’t know if I can trust it. I know I can afford my house myself if necessary. But we’re supposed to get married. I said we need to get wedding bands and we’re literally getting them from a pawn shop and he said he can’t afford it right now. And I could tell he got upset and distant for a few days. My parents are paying for the wedding btw.

Right, it's tricky because there's a lot of truth to what they say. I have been saving and just now have enough to cover my debt, so from now until our lease is up (in January) I will be in the net positive. They have a high paying job but they also have substantially more debt, and they still need to save more to break even. 

Aa far as the compromises, it's a lot to explain, but basically I dont have much of a voice in the house. The three of them seem to always be on the same page about things, and I am always the dissenting voice. Whether it's about chores, activities, plans, etc., I'm always the odd one out. Plus my partner said their sister is very confrontational so be careful about bringing stuff up to her (like picking up her dogs poop in the backyard which prevents me from gardening and doing my art out there). I bring it up to my partner and nothing really gets done, so it's a bit of a contentious point.

As for the reason I moved in, I was renting a room from a couple I met on Craigslist for a year and a half when suddenly they said they want to give my room to their cousin, and I had 30 days to find somewhere to live. 

Just want to say thank you for taking the time to comment and for your insights. It's much appreciated

sorry but your business has nothing to do with shared marital assets. this isn't a trust issue, its a business issue. she needs to pick a better hill to die on. she has legal protections already in place from the state (assuming you're in the US)

Why do you think I should I’m genuinely asking cause I need some advice

Why would you date someone that doesn't care about anyone except himself?

You *know* that includes you, don't you?

Wait till the perimenopause hits then you'll really never get laid 🤣

People outside of the relationship can behave how they like and bear the consequences.

Obviously. That's not saying anything. I can take a shit on my neighbor's stoop and bear the consequences of that. Doesn't mean it's not disrespectful.

What's disrespectful about what the guy in OP's story did was he put someone who is a friend in an uncomfortable situation. He knew she was in a relationship. If he developed feelings, he should deal with that -- either by realizing she's in a relationship and getting over his feelings, or if he can't get over his feelings then breaking off contact. He chose option 3, which was to say how he feels. And now he's forcing OP's girlfriend (and the OP) to have to feel uncomfortable because he can't regulate his feelings.

Then I guess you get to sit on the guilt if you don't really thing he deserves a say in the matter🤷‍♀️

Is he a mute? He cannot say to his friends « stop sending me these things it’s disrespectful towards my wife » ?

People change; circumstances change. You’ve entered a new chapter in your friendship. 

Don’t expect things to be the same in this next chapter. Hopefully you two, and your friendship, will evolve as well.

Did you even read my comment? Will daycare for the 6 month old be less expensive than what she will potentially be making? What are her interests, what kind of job could she do? Would she be able to do remote or would she thrive more in person? Does she have any skills outside of child rearing (which is very important btw) or does she need an entry level role? What kind of experience does she have in the job world?

You are tripping, yes, because you're focused on what you want and not the facts of the situation. Read my comment again.

No, some lies make the world go round I dont always agree with it but that’s the problem. If my bf did this to me I wish he’d never tell me since it’d destroy me.

Oh dear!!! I’m so sorry you have to live through this. 

It’s sad but he isn’t being truthful. He is attracted to these women. I’m t is the reason he looks at them and likes their posts. It’s not because of these women’s great intellectual perspectives on life is it?

Having a child is hard on the body and  mind. You need to explain that you need to feel that you are with a man with strength of character who has the strength and courage to protect from harm. But right now, his own actions are communicating to you that his going around the web feasting on women’s bodies is more important than protecting you from hurt and feeling less than. 

You are in a vulnerable state. 
You need to have him step up and stop gaslighting you. You are seeing what you are seeing and he should stop pretending it’s not what it is.

dude chill, i know that he’s working and he’s busy. but he got like 4 times break per hour/s and i’m worried about him bcoz he recently got into accident (like the hot oil spilled on his arm) and i was just checking up on him, especially since his manager didn’t let him take emergency leave because they needed him.

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

We did eat before so I was thinking it came from that. And I also don’t think she’s cheating. Thank you so much tho this helped a lot

Don’t focus too much on the kids. The kids are very well taken care of straight a students and they’re living a better life than I live. When I was a kid. The original question was how can I motivate my wife to get on the bandwagon of making money, even a side hustle how can the fire be lit?

i’m not that demanding for “updates” i was just wondering about him bcoz before he got in accident and i was worried about him, he’s manager didn’t let him get his emergency off because they needed him.

Move on. You were a huge asshole to him. Now that you’re single and see him successful in his endeavors, you suddenly want him back in your life. That’s extremely selfish and shows your true character. He deserves better.

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yes, he is verbally abusing you, then trying to reel you back in by being nice. Time to break up.

So she potentially has two children home all day. 

Have you calculated how much daycare will be for at least the 6 month old, for her to be able to go back to work, and also the 5 year old if they're not in all-day kindergarten? That might be more than her potential salary given she doesn't have a consistent work history because she's been caring for children this past almost-decade. I would do the cost-benefit analysis of her going to work first, and then go from there. 

Daycare ain't cheap and someone has to care for the children you keep making despite not being able to afford it.

I’m a bit confused u/Present_Web4218  🤔 17 days ago you said you were embarrassed that you said you loved him already. 79 days ago you were dating someone else. Have you thought about therapy for your issues?

It's absolutely normal for high school relationships to end as people realize they are incompatible. There's just so much growing and maturing going on that new incompatibilities just pop up.

She's not right for you, but if you want to work on your avoidant issues (and it's a good idea that you do) that's something to work with a therapist on.  A girlfriend was never going to help you with that.

Yeah if you've never had one, and you've been together for 6 months, it is very unlikely that you gave her anything. I'll never say 0% but like...99% lol.   
Hopefully its just a yeast infection like you think or some other sort of issue. The biome of the vagina has a lot going on, so if she's literally doing ANYTHING other than washing the outside only with water and mild soap there's always a chance something is wrong. (Like if she is washing inside with soap or douching she shouldn't be) You could literally have like...eaten a popsicle and then ate her out with a slightly sugary mouth, and that could be enough to get a yeast infection,  
If it comes back positive for something...its likely something she already had, or, one of you might not be telling the whole truth. But, considering she's blaming you, I'd assume its just something medical she can clear up quick with antibiotics.

Man that's a messy situation you found yourself in. Being trapped in toxic relationship at such young age makes everything so much harder to navigate properly. I get why you made those choices - when someone is controlling and awful to you for that long, your decision-making gets all twisted up and you just survive however you can.

  
The tricky part is your current boyfriend still doesn't know about the overlap, right? Two years is pretty long time to keep something like this inside. I've seen relationships where secrets like this eventually come out in some way, and it usually goes worse when the person finds out from somewhere else instead of hearing it from their partner. But I also understand your fear that telling him might destroy what you have now when you both seem really happy.

  
Maybe think about whether this secret is eating at you more as time goes on, or if you're genuinely at peace with it. Some people can live with these things and some can't sleep at night. Either way is valid, just depends on what kind of person you are and what your relationship can handle.

You don’t support your partner enough to stand up for them when it matters, even when you agree you should. Ick.

this is huge red flag honestly.. you paid full down payment but he's still complaining about money when he chose to help his family? that's not really fair to you

  
you need serious conversation before august about boundaries with his mom because this pattern will only get worse after marriage. if he can't prioritize your future together over supporting his family indefinitely then maybe postpone the wedding until you both figure out fair financial arrangement

She’s in school to be a nurse we’ll just graduated with her associates in science

Do you have a better suggestion then? Sheesh.

No, you're not being an asshole. What you're doing is actually the normal way to look for opportunities

Who wants to work?? Work is hard enough - 8,10, 12 hours a day and to be pressured to message during those times or your going to have issues with someone is insane - be happy that he is working and let him concentrate on keeping the job - let him be

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not include the ages and genders of those involved.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It’s not that he’s individualistic, it’s that he’s selfish

Waiting for test results when you're stressed feels like forever though. Could be anything from yeast infection to just irritation from soap or something random - bodies are weird sometimes. At least she's getting properly checked instead of just guessing.

She's just boy crazy.

You went from a few dates to boyfriend in less than 30 days? Ouch

The kids are 16,14,9,5 and 6 months old

Yeah he's an a-hole. Grade A.

I don't think having a child and keeping a business you built on your own before your spouse (if shit goes south) are comparable. It assumes that without the business, OP wouldn't have the means or desire to offer his offspring and his ex-spouse the financial support they deserve.  Protecting a pre-existing business is not the same thing as saying "if we split up you get nothing".  

It means separating premarital/business assets from the marital partnership  - while still making fair provisions for the life built during the marriage.

their so busy during shifts tho

Wouldn't you want to know your relationship was built on lies if it was reversed?

He's working. Unless you're his boss, there's nothing to "update" you about while he's working.

Let the man cook.

he "doesn't give a damn about others, only himself,"

I hope you realize that *you* count as "others" in this context, and leave accordingly.

Yeah the talking point you just said to defend your parents is basically the same one that was used by germans after ww2 to excuse why they had no issue with the camps the 3rd reich put up. 

So congrats, youre usining nazi arguments to justify what ICE is doing

You should probably look into professional help for depression

Sounds like Bacterial vaginosis (BV) which is not an STI. But she should see a doctor to confirm and for treatment

1. I’ve never had a cold sore.
2. We should have yeah
3. We’ve been dating for almost 6 months. She’s had 1 partner before me
4. I was thinking about making one

but after months of being in a relationship with her

So you've only been together a few months? Maybe this just isn't your "soul mate."

There SO much misinformation and ignorance in this thread alone lol.

People are morons.

NOR. Think about why this has ruined his relationship with your family? Could it be that they now see how badly he behaves and want better for you?

You deserve better. How would being single be worse than this?

There are more pregnancies by women in their 30s than in their 20s.

Wtf the man is frying potatoes, what the hell would he update you about? Let the man work!

Another piece of advice: if your partner doesn't want to be around someone because they are racist, do not try to force him to do so. That will lead to both more trauma for your partner, and also the end of your relationship. Good luck.

You both need to work together on this.  
You get into this rut because you count on your feelings from the honeymoon phase to just be there forever.  
When it's new it's just automatically exciting to spend time together, it's your top priority because it's the most exciting new thing in your life.   

Then it goes from being new and becomes normal. You're always kind of there together existing, when you do spend time together you're not doing fun things or having sex, you're about housework or logistics or nagging or getting nagged, so you escape into something that brings you more joy and excitement.    
He's spending all his time gaming and with his friends because he doesn't enjoy spending time with you anymore. That's not on you or on him, it's both of you. You both have to always be working on making things exciting.

Leave the ball in his court where it belongs. If he wants to talk to you he will. If he doesn't then mover on.

1) Have you ever had a cold sore? Its a possibility that you gave her something, though typically that only happens if you have an active sore.   
2) She should just go to her OBGYN. They will literally tell her what's wrong.   
3) Idk how long ya'll have been dating, but STDs can stay dormant for a while. So even if she has one, it might not be you if she's had multiple sexual partners.   
4) You should also probably get tested just in case.

He's an idiot. And dangerous. 86 him from your life.

From her message, he kissed her the same week they became exclusive…just last month (a week ago) and if I read it correctly, he only told her because he was drunk.

The idea is to wait for the test results. It is proof one way or the other. If she's silly enough to not believe the doctor then she's not very bright and you can't fix dumb.

What do you mean by 'update'? 

Personally, I would find it exhausting needing to update my partner throughout the day. I let my GF just do her own thing during the day and I catch up with her when she gets home.

Exactly. If a prenup "protected both people" then (usually men) would be able to approach their partner by saying things like, "I'd like to get a prenup to ensure that, in the unlikely event anything terrible happens, we both share in the benefits of my (home, business) to the degree that we both contributed to it during the marriage. I want to know that my initial investments are protected and for you know that you'll never be left high and dry. I'd like us to both get lawyers to ensure that any solution we come to really is fair and balanced, including making sure you're compensated for your contributions such as any unpaid labour and any lopsided consequences of having a family."

Instead, it's, "I want a prenup that equally protects and benefits you and me - your assets (that you don't own yet) will always be yours (if they were to exist, and they won't, because I will never allow our lives to be structured in a way for you to catch up to me financially), and mine will always be mine (and will continue to appreciate to my exclusive benefit in the event of a divorce, supported by your income and/or free labour)."

Prenups absolutely *can* be equitable and they are becoming more equitable now that it's more common for women to marry and have children later in life, to own their own homes as single women, and to have nearly equal income parity with men prior to motherhood. This is also due to how the law has changed in how it evaluates prenups based on whether both parties had equally informed consent and legal representation. But when prenups get brought up, it still typically sounds like the second scenario, not like the first. 

To people who don't think it's "fair" to have to give up half of "their" assets in a divorce I say - okay, then compensate your spouse during the marriage. If your spouse has to quit their job to provide childcare, pay your spouse the amount of money you determined you were going to spend on childcare, or their prior wage. Whatever you are saving by having your spouse not work is their share of the financial contribution to your expenses and assets and should be recorded as such. Consider the impact of the loss of their accumulated career progression - opportunity cost is a real cost. They are taking on an unfair share of the expenses of the relationship and therefore, should be compensated in terms of a higher proportion of any accumulated gains. If your spouse has to do work on the side for your home business or unpaid household labour outside of regular hours, that is either increasing the paid partner's income potential or reducing the need for outsourcing work. Those *are* financial contributions. If you want to be "fair", that's what fair looks like. If you want to be credited for being a "provider", for "providing" a home and income, you have to actually provide it to your partner - it has to belong to them too.

If she is going to put the burden of  financial responsibility on you for the rest of your lives, the last she can do is wait until you get your education and career in order. If she can't compromise on time, then she can get an income to take some that burden off of you. You have a desire for this career and future. Why does her desire to be a sahm mean more than yours to have the profession you want?

You are young. My husband and I got engaged at 23, but started dating at 18 and had a 2 year engagement. I look back now after 15 years of marriage and can't believe how young we really were.

I think it’s as simple as letting the know that you’ve already been asking around, and perhaps throw in some context abou tthe time sensitivity. That brings everyone up onto the same page.

If you’ve already talked to him about this and he’s not willing to give more or make you more of a priority, time decide if you’re willing to stick around with the status quo

He leaves every time you have a disagreement? He doesn’t do shit around the house, except Cook👯🐱💜? And I guess that means he doesn’t clean up after he cooks…

I guess you have to ask yourself if this is what you’re willing to settle for. Because it doesn’t sound like he has any intention of doing better.

Nah you're overthinking this big time 😂 When you ask multiple people for help finding an internship, everyone knows there's a good chance you'll only need one. It's not like you're asking them to loan you money or something super personal.

  
Just be upfront from the start - tell each person "hey I'm reaching out to a few different contacts to see what options are out there" and then when you do have to decline offers, be gracious about it. Thank them for their time and effort, and maybe mention you'd love to keep them in mind for future opportunities.

  
The whole guilt trip thing from your parent is kinda ridiculous though. People in professional settings deal with this stuff all the time - candidates interview multiple places, people explore different options, whatever. As long as you're respectful about it, most adults will understand you gotta do what's best for your situation 💀

What is it that you’d like to be updated about?

You don’t need everyone’s approval to leave a relationship that doesn’t feel right anymore

"I'm not reading this novel". LOL

If you didn't read it, then you don't know whether I admitted anything or not. "This is my job" isn't a valid rebuttal.

But: Good day.

I'm gonna be honest... In this economy, I think it's gonna be difficult to be the sole breadwinner, unless you both work before you have kids, save up some money to use, and THEN she becomes a stay at home mom. And I understand her wanting to be "younger" when she has kids but real talk... I see people in their early to mid, even LATE 30s all the time. It isn't impossible.

That being said... any kind of medical school is hard work. And as a CRNA (versus being a nurse or anything above that) you won't be making good money for at least a few years / until you get more experience and certification as well, right? Between that, and her expecting you to also help with the baby between working and school... Idk man, that's just not a good equation to me. Some people I'm sure have made it work, but it's gonna be difficult. Wanting to be a stay at home mom while not being in a financially stable position to do so (while the other person is busting their ass) sounds like the setup for a lot of resentment if not rude awakenings.

It's your relationship, so I'm just saying this from the outside looking in, but to me, it sounds like you want different things when it comes to the family setup, stability, etc. For me personally, I wouldn't give up on a career (if it's something you really love or see yourself doing for a long time) to try to have a family in the middle of it, know what I mean? Because until the child is older... It's gonna be HARD even with one person staying home to take care of them, if it's even financially feasible to do that.

He sounds like a selfish asshat. You can do better

he doesn't and never did

Being considerate, respectful, showing interest in others, kindness, being teammates and a unit (including at events, celebrations) is important to me. I don’t mind if a partner is socially touched out and skips a party of someone who is a friend, but any partner I’ve had (introverted or extroverted) of course attended family gatherings, funerals, Christmas etc. 

I wouldn’t mind someone opting out because of their mental health, or because they just can’t „people“ on a given day. 

But not respecting my stuff and privacy and showing so little interest and to not really participate in the social aspect of your life: yeah I’d perfectly understand you not wanting that.

Also: he sounds egotistical and self-centred. 

Individualistic to me is choosing to live in a collective (my favourite person), to buy a house solo, to do things the way you like… but up to a point. This is not it!

Oh, wow. I appreciate the insight, I didn’t realize that leaving it to him to call out is harmful. Maybe I am ignorant but I thought that was the right thing to do as I don’t want to speak for him on those issues. Now that you say that, it makes sense. I will keep that in mind moving forward and do a better job of speaking up.

Like any other contract, a prenup can be modified, amended, or cancelled. If ten years down the road ~something changes~, a prenup can change too.

If it continues you enforce the boundary. Like "we won't come over anymore if you're going to be so insensitive to him, we don't want your company." Or "I will hang up the phone" things then do them.

no really you have to believe me he is my only option that's why I took the chance, I didn't know he lied to me that much until like yesterday but thank you tho for the advice

If your partner wanted to move out but thought finances were a problem that answer would have sounded very different.

They don't care to move out

Not reading this novel. This is literally my job and I’m not engaging with someone who can’t admit they’re wrong. Bye.

First, "the court's prenup" is not really a thing. Courts do not give you a prenup. They apply statutes, case law, and equitable principles depending on the state.

Second, "extenuating circumstances won’t matter" is too broad a statement. Circumstances can matter a lot, especially in equitable distribution states, spousal support decisions, custody-related financial issues, dissipation of assets, commingling, separate property tracing, contributions to the marriage, and so on. But the court may not honor the exact personal reasoning you wish it would unless the law recognizes it.

Third, prenups are not only for people with significant premarital assets, though that is one common reason. They can also matter for debt, business ownership, inheritance expectations, children from prior relationships, family property, future appreciation of assets, pets, retirement accounts, and clarity around financial responsibilities. 

Yes, many people in their 20s skip prenups because they do not yet have much property to protect, but it's for future situations, as well.

15% for couples who both have a college degree

lol - wtf kind of qualifier is that?  so what percentage of married couples have a college degree?  

The stat (while down from the classical 50%) is 42% of first marriages are likely to end in divorce.

I mean, that's close enough to a coin flip for me to get a prenup lol.

I think it’s healthy to want your own space and progress the relationship, but it’s true that cost of living is nuts right now and there are advantages to buckling down and saving. I would say before you consider moving, make sure you and your partner are maximizing that part — if their idea is to save, they should be taking steps to do this. Maybe they are, but you don’t mention it, and if they’re not then that’s a statement on where things are going on its own. 

There are a lot of compromises I’ve had to make to reduce conflict in the house.

What are you referring to here? What is keeping you from asserting yourself and establishing boundaries to make this feel more like your home as well as the sister and fiancée?

What were the circumstances that led you to move in with their family initially? I only ask in case that is playing a role in their wariness to move out.

I mean yeah, I guess im fine with him glancing when I can see. I think the fact that he always tried to hide it from me or do it at an angle where I can't see his phone is what hurt too.he didnt want me to know

If he is so individualistic and isolationist then why is he snooping through your laptop? Isn't that a MAJOR violation of your personal boundaries and is definitely not consistent with individulism.

He's full of shit and just sounds like an all around awful person. Honestly he sounds like a horrible person to bring to a party, so good thing he didn't come. 

Dump this loser, so he can get on with his individual life.

You have to figure out what YOU want. Don't even think "he's my only option" because that's not true. If you just want a fwb, then go for it I guess? (This is bad advice but that seems to be what you're looking for)

Honestly you seem like you have a lot of maturing to do. I would not make any rash decisions because the last thing you need is to get pregnant from a guy who can't even tell you the truth. 😬

The answer to her problem isn't "masturbate and experiment on your own, in other words, do all the work yourself." 

Her problem is her shitty partner

She's not even human to him. She's a tool he can use to fulfill his needs.

It took you that long? Lol 2 sentences and I was of the same mind.

Yeah I agree with you. I would never say something like that around anyone. Just trying to explain their mindset and why they will die on the hill that what they said shouldn’t have offended my partner. 

Honestly, what do you think I should do? Besides growing more of a backbone and not being silent when stuff like this happens? I did set a boundary with my parents that they cannot mention anything to do with ICE or immigration around my partner, but I am afraid it will continue to happen if they don’t even believe that what they are saying is offensive

Sex isn’t even a love language…And regardless of who made them up most people would agree they respond so something in those categories more than others.

I have an appointment for an evaluation in September, they couldn't give me an earlier appointment unfortunately.

I know that my depression messes with my worldview and self perception but it's super hard to detect what's real and what isn't. It feels so convincing and true.

I know I only want to hook up don't know if he's just playing and wouldn't do it again

Surgery won't fix PCOS. It's worrying that your partner understands so little of what you're going through.

Don't let that stop you from pursuing your CRNA!!. And if she stays healthy theres definitely still a chance she can conceived in 5 years. Plenty of women can conceive in their early to mid 30's. Maybe you really aren't meant to be after all and the relationship will need to end? It happens and it's ok. You might really really regret not having pursued your CRNA.

Are all 5 children school age and in school every day? Can she find a part time or flexible remote role so she can be home for the kids as needed? What's the issue with finding a job, for her?

A lot of digital marketing agencies are remote and have support roles that are good for entry level, if she's interested in something like that. Or something in data entry.

You appear to be shocked by your partners reaction. Tell us about how reasonable the prenup is?    How are they provided for?  What happens if you divorce after a certain amount of years?  How is the support she provides factored in to final division?

I’m confused why you even keep in touch with him at all

No worries I understand how stressful it is when you post and get a ton of replies. 😄

Love languages were made up by a pastor so that men could utilize them to coerce their wives into sex. "Sex is my love language" is manipulation and abuse.

TL; DR- get rid of him ASAP, protect yourself, surround yourself with family and friends, do NOT let him manipulate you into staying with him. Do not believe him when he says you guys can work things out. 

The rest of this is just stream of consciousness rambling and not necessary, but having spent decades with a person VERY similar to your bf… idk. I just want SOMEONE to get out before they have to endure even a fraction of the things I did, or god forbid, WORSE. I just hope someone reads it and listens I guess. 

Killing someone isn’t the only way to take away their life. Just saying. 

On top of the stuff you listed, I know you’ll probably feel obligated to stay with him because he moved to be with you. Don’t. Get the hell out of this relationship while you still can. You already know what you need to do, so if hearing it from one more random stranger makes you feel better about the decision, you’ve got my vote. 

This guy sounds like a manipulative narcissist. Why does only HIS “boundaries” matter? You will never be able to find compromise with a person like that. You will always have to be the one to accommodate \*him\*.  In everything. Can you imagine if you had kids? 

I have a daughter your age. If you were her, I’d be over there packing his things and helping you change the locks. He’s digging through your things because either he wants out too, or he’s looking for a way to control you further. Whatever the motive, he needs it to be YOUR fault, though. That’s what guys like him do. He needs you on the defensive, always trying to make concessions to keep the peace. It’s started with managing your personality. Criticizing your closeness with your family. It’s going to lead to him not letting you see them anymore. He is going to isolate you a little at a time until HE is the only person in your life. 

With the breakup.. he is likely gonna twist this no matter what you do, so just let him. He will hopefully move back to his enabling family anyway, but in the end, it doesn’t matter what he tells people. Let him make you the “bad guy”.  Hell, BE the bad guy - get mean if you have to, but MAKE HIM LEAVE!  I’m willing to bet your family will be extremely relieved.  Also, please be careful. He strikes me as the type to not be entirely stable when it comes to being rejected. 

Tell your family FIRST before you tell him. Have them on standby. Let them know your timeline. E.g. “after breakfast around 8 I’m going to talk to him, I’ll call you around noon to let you know how it went”. Make sure you have a time set for someone to check on you physically, not just via text. Even if you don’t think he will do anything. This is important. 

No matter what, DO NOT LET HIM MANIPULATE YOU INTO STAYING!!!!!  He will NOT change. He knows his behavior is unacceptable. You’re not pointing out things he doesn’t know he’s doing. There’s nothing he is going to be able to work on because he doesn’t believe he is doing anything wrong. His actions are very intentional.

Yeah he’s a bad person, sorry. Don’t build a life with someone that not only doesn’t have empathy, but looks down on it.

Jesus fucking Christ.

The way I see it is that it's part of a generally respect we have for all people. I have a "baseline respect" for all people, not more than necessary, but respect none the less. And that includes stuff you do which could affect others relations.

But you're right about how that has zero value for me in how me and my gf should move on (Although a little bit so that I can explain to my gf how I think and feel about him). But the main issue is how she will continue from here.

I’ve always been like this. I like fun and happy positive people, if people cause drama like this or are mean to me etc., I simply stop being friends with them.
Maybe you can practice something half way. 

I don’t see how you can comfortably go out with them again anytime soon though? Staying home or going out elsewhere seems the far happier choice regardless

You’re misunderstanding what I wrote. The options are making your own prenup or following the divorce laws your state set as a default. That is you using the court’s “prenup”. 

You’re getting one no matter what. If you don’t make your own, your assets will be handled based on court standards and the extenuating circumstances you feel you have won’t matter. You’re being handled under the blanket court rules. 

Everyone has one. The court one or one you make yourself. If you are okay with the court one then there’s no need to have one on your own. Most people in their 20s don’t bother because they don’t have significant premarital assets so there’s no need. It’s mainly people who have premarital assets.

Because he is a narcissist. I feel like I'm taking crazy pills reading all the other responses on this thread acting like your husband is in the right.

I agree with all the responses currently

OP, you should call out your dad's comments (and anyone else who makes similar comments) in the moment. Don't sit there silent and then talk to your partner later, without calling it out. Especially if it happens in front of him. As the non-white partner in an interracial marriage, that is very damaging too.

Can I ask how old you are?

"even when I have initiated, it never seems to change the underlying issue. I still end up hearing that I don’t desire him enough or don’t initiate enough."

Please see my other comment I just left. This just proves to me that I'm right about him. It will never be enough. Nothing you do will ever be enough. You can spin your wheels for years while he manipulates and abuses you, or you can put a stop to it now and leave.

I know but yk he's the only one I did it with and also the other options are definitely not good

This was advice I needed 15 years ago.

I asked when they picture us living together and they said "I dont know, times are different now, it might be next year or might not. I dont like to stick to one plan because things change." Which i feel is a cop-out.

I think you're right. They're complacent and don't want their standard of living to change.

I think you should move out on your own if you can afford it. If your partner wants to be with you, they'll ask to come with you, but I think we both know what will happen, and it'll be for your own best interest to nip it in the bud there.

You know there's other people out there, right?

I dunno, I got to the first part of your "text" where you said the relationship has deep incompatibilities and stopped reading. 

Making it through life is tough enough as it is. I'm not going to add deep incompatibilities to a primary relationship as well.

"he measures feeling desired almost entirely through sex, specifically me initiating sex."

I dealt for years with my ex husband. He convinced me that this was true. I later learned that he was just one of many men who use this lie to try to coerce sex that they know is unwanted.

What exactly does this man actually bring to your life? How does he show you love and affection? I bet if you actually sit down and think about it, you will realize that he's not actually that great and that this is a one-sided relationship. You may be trauma bonded to him. Please watch some videos about narcissistic partner abuse and the trauma bond.

Your husband, like my ex, is a manipulator. He is a narcissist. No matter what you do, it will never be enough for him. You will keep trying "just one more thing" to make him happy and it will never work. Stop pouring all of your love and affection into an empty vessel, and find someone who will appreciate you for all you have to give.

Huh. If she's not willing to discuss an important topic that's some alarm bells. Ultimatums are alarm bells. Telling you to gamble your future when as a matter of fact people can and do change with no safety is a definite red flag to me.

well yeah cause of sex

Time for you to practice your own version of extreme individualism and go your own way far far away from these nutcases.

dude youre both right which makes this so much harder. shes 28 and feeling that clock tick - three years puts her at 31 which isnt ancient but i get why shes feeling the pressure. and your concerns about crna school are legit as hell, that program sounds brutal

  
the thing is you cant logic your way out of biological drives. she wants kids now and no amount of spreadsheets showing future financial security is gonna change that visceral need. meanwhile you see all the medical complications that can happen and want to be there for her when she needs you most

  
honestly this might come down to whether either of you can compromise. could you start trying in year 2-3 of the program instead of waiting the full 5? or could she push her timeline back by like a year? because right now youre both drawing hard lines and someone has to bend or this relationship is toast

  
the brutal truth is sometimes love isnt enough when life goals are this misaligned. neither of you is wrong but if neither budges then yeah, you might be fundamentally incompatible despite how good everything else is

I want to know what he thinks

Ask him?

all he does is lie to me

Yet still you want to keep seeing him?

How would we know? If he lies to you he clearly doesn't value you.

I dont think that matters.

If I'm near a person of color and go "yeah they rounded up 8,000 of them there illegals" I know they wouldn't take that well...

It comes down to personality. My fiancee asked me that and I pretty much said the same thing.  I find it to be highly unromantic and offensive. Makes it easier for people to leave.

the issue is they think the only people being “rounded up” are violent criminals, not just regular people trying to make an honest living. They don’t support that at all and think those people should be allowed to stay, but also are in denial that it is happening to anyone except for violent criminals.

Why are you still having all these interactions with your Ex? He's crazy and acting crazy, no good can come from trying to figure out his thought processes. Avoid him and move on with your life.

All valid feelings but she has a biological clock - you don’t. That factor needs to have a little more weight in your consideration and is only briefly mentioned. You are dating a woman older than you which means you may need to be more flexible than what is ideal in your logical thought process because of that.

girl same, that was a whole rollercoaster 😂 but like the real issue here is you saying "he's my only option" - that's not gonna end well for anyone involved. Maybe take some time to figure out what YOU actually want instead of settling for sketchy situations with your cousin's friend who's already proven he lies to your face 💀

Doesn't sound healthy or that he will change.

Either stay and resent him, which will make the relationship even unhealthier, or go. 

You can't control his actions.

I feel like it's not even worth it if race is going to keep coming up.  I dated a guy that all he talked about was the white man keeping him down. The distrust gets old when you didn't do anything to deserve that.

Now she cooks everyday and takes our kids to school but I’m the cleaner and shopper

I wanna know what he thinks because all he does is lie to me

Your mental health struggles are clouding your judgment big time. Been with my girl for a couple years and went through something similar where I thought I wasn't good enough because she had her degree and I was just working construction. But here's the thing - if this dude has been with you for almost 5 years, he's not with you out of pity or because he's settling. He's with you because he genuinely wants to be. You're listing all these "flaws" but missing the fact that he chose you and keeps chosing you every day. The therapist suggestion is spot on though, because this kind of self-doubt will eat away at your relationship if you don't address it. Stop trying to convice yourself you're not worth it when he's already shown you that you are.

yeah if you can afford to live on your own you should do it and it will probably strengthen your relationship

I agree. If a prenup is about deciding on a different division of assets than the government does, like the current top comment says, then the next question should be this:

"Why makes our situation unique, so that the standard, default outcome of a separation should not apply to us?"

There may indeed be unique situations that warrant this. But it can also be a cop out. OP's partner may ask what makes his business so special that he needs to go above and beyond the standard situation.

It’s a joint effort no decision is being made without me and I appreciate that but I wouldn’t mind taking a day off

are you just telling the story? cause there is no question in there. what do you want from us?
you want him, then you don’t. you trust him, then you don’t. pick a lane?

Your boyfriend can see your good qualities and that's why he picked you. You have good qualities but you're currently blind to them.

Are you getting treated for your mental health issues? Work on feeling better and on your self esteem. You're beating yourself up over things that don't matter.

She wouldn’t walk away with nothing and benefits from whatever income he earns from the business throughout the marriage.

The prenup would protect both sides laying out what happens depending on numerous situations. The shared assets get split. The details around how alimony, child support & custody would look based on household income, his work, her work, length of marriage, childcare split etc based on what would be seen as fair.

Getting your own studio might actually give you both the space to figure out what you really want without all the household drama clouding things

Yes I said contribute a minimum of 500 a month but now I’m ubering to cover the misc and bills driving myself and vehicle in the ground

I have a rule that my partner's past sexual partners are none of my business...unless they are still in their lives or in my social circle. Don't have me around people you've fucked without me knowing it. 

Yes, you should definitely tell him.

It's important to acknowledge being single isn't a bad thing. You went through something horrific and the fact you have the courage to rebuild yourself after a horrible relationship means something. If you feel scared to show up alone, bring a friend! Surround yourself by people who support you and stand up tall. Let time heal all wounds and when the time comes you'll find your person.

Of course we talk everyday about it I buy the groceries I pay the bills I gas up both cars and handle personal products. Nothing seems to change even after talking. Sometimes I think it’s personal sometimes…I’m not here to bash I just want to ignite someone else’s drive

I didn't say it was a good idea, but OP is hung up on the "disrespect" issue. People outside of the relationship can behave how they like and bear the consequences. How to deal with this information is up to the people in the relationship.

he "doesn't give a damn about others, only himself," reinforcing his trait of being extremely withdrawn and seeing absolutely no issue with it.

Why do you want to be with someone with this sort of outlook on not just life, but relationships in general? What benefit will this mindset bring to you as his partner? If you stay, you ensure that the rest of your life will be spent without a dependable partner to lean on for help when times are tough, who does not “give a damn” about you or your wants/feelings/needs/goals. You’re meant for so much more than this.

Time for some talk therapy to help with your communication skills.

Has he always been nuts?

If you want to fix this, go to therapy. Reddit isn't going to help you with this.

I lost brain cells reading this

Getting out safely is huge. Sounds like they handled a really tough situation the best way they could. Hope the next chapter is a whole lot calmer and happier for them.

Shooting your shot with someone you care about that's taken isn't likely to go well, it's only going to cause trouble for someone that you probably don't want to cause trouble for. It's posing a real dilemma for them, whichever way they happen to feel. If you think something could happen between you and someone who is already taken, it is on the taken party to open that can of worms as it swiftly becomes their problem to deal with.

Dump the babyman and go live your best life.

You should let him know that

I didn’t say anything to him about it afterwards which I think is where I f*cked up. I guess I was waiting for him to bring it up bc I wasn’t sure if he wanted to talk about it. Eventually I just forgot about it bc enough time had passed and he never brought it up. 
I should have been more proactive and I regret that.

Is he being kind and loving to you when he isn't being mean/cruel/rude OR is he love bombing you when he isn't being abusive?

That this comes from his family background is just an "excuse" he can use. It's just context. He chooses to continue those behaviours on you even though it upsets you. He's not even trying to do something different and occasionally having a bad moment. No, this is how he wants to treat you. THAT is what matters.

Why waste your time and emotional bandwidth on this? You're scared of wasting your youth on this and you should be. Your instincts are sharp and you should listen to them. Your "post-nut clarity" moment literally spelled out what I was going to write in this comment.

Leave him and, honestly, take precautions when you do.

Your parents are consuming racist media. I mean, we all are, whether we want to or not; but the give away is your mom thinking that you & your partner are "anti-white racists". That means she's getting the bad shit - whether it's just too much Fox News or it's targeted content on her facebook feed, nasty stuff is getting to her. There are definitely anti-white racists and hate groups, but outside of prison they're not actually a significant threat - but racists love to bring it up as a what-about-ism that derails other conversations on structural racism. It's also not a great sign that your father is willing to make off-hand pro-ice comments.

So the first thing you need to acknowledge is that your boyfriend is right. Your parents hold racist views in spite of their kind treatment of one individual of color, and those are going to be an issue as your relationship continues. As the one with the parents, it is your job to place the boundary, stop the comments when they happen, set the ground rules and so on.

My parents had to tell my grandparents to stop using the n word when my sister and I were kids. It's just a generational thing you have to do. You can't cure people of their biases, but you can make them decide whether they value those biases more highly than they do their relationships.

Talk to you partner about what he needs you to do next time they say something with racist undertones. He may not know exactly what he wants you to do, but he certainly knows what behavior isn't good enough and that should give you what you need to start with. If you're keeping an open and respectful conversation about it, then he'll probably be willing to keep things going. You need to be respectful of his perspective even when you disagree - if he says your parents are racist, that matters more to yalls relationship than if they actually are.

Second, you need to work with your parents on their media diet. Take the racial element out of it - Fox News feeds them a steady drip of outrage that is addictive and unhealthy for them to consume, and people who spend too much time with it lose their ability to feel any other emotions than outrage. A lot of the news on the internet and facebook is divisive; and they've brought that division into their relationship with you. Just the same as you'd interfere if they were eating themselves into diabetes or drinking themselves in cirrhosis, you need to step in and tell them that they need to shape up some.

Either you write a prenup or the state writes one for you. As long as both of you have separate legal representation, prenups are not bad.

If he lies when there’s no reason to lie, I wouldn’t trust him when things are at stake.

I don't think this is really about motivation anymore. After nine years, it's about expectations. Have the two of you ever sat down and agreed on whether she was expected to contribute financially?

I'm not saying she is the problem. It's obvious her partner could be do better. OP asked about what steps she could take, so I answered her question. It's very basic reading comprehension.

Yes he crossed a line and the only outcome he could have reasonably expected is either her reciprocating, or that confession kind of fucking up the friendship. 

The fact your girlfriend told you about it is a really good first step. I think a bit of space is a great idea for everyone at this stage. If she resists or seems more interested in protecting his feelings over yours, then you might have a problem.

It sounds like he has a complicated relationship with this people. Does he actually enjoy spending time with them? Or does he dread the meetup and leave feeling agitated and upset most times? If that is the case, you could have a talk with him about it and maybe you both could start looking for some new friends to spend time with. It's really easy to end up in a "sunk cost fallacy" situation with friends too, not just partners.

You two aren't married. He has strong feelings for her, so he had 3 choices- say something, say nothing, or remove himself altogether. He chose option 1, putting the ball in her court.

I dont really understand why respect is your hang up issue here? You should be focused on your girlfriend's feelings and boundaries surrounding how she plans to move forward with this friendship. It's more about *her* respect for your relationship. What reason does this guy have to hold respect for you? He likes her, it makes sense he'd say something.

Edited the post, thanks for the input.

The kids need someone watching them and running the household but 4 kids is a lot financially on one income. Maybe she could look into remote work or something part time that fits around the family schedule. Childcare costs would probably eat up most of what shed make anyway if you went the full time route

I'd be offended too and I'm white. I'd be like "ok and??" On the defense.

Taking care of five children and a household sounds like a full-time job to me. Have you asked her what she needs to feel supported if she works outside the home? Consider practical solutions. For instance, how would she feel about a home childcare business (get certified and everything you need to do legally). Affordable childcare for working parents can be hard to find. Remote part-time work can also be hard to find but those roles exist too. It would probably help her to work (for money) if you lightened her load around the house.

What specifically did your dad say when he "made an offhand comment about ICE"? Like, if it was, "It's terrible what Trump is doing with ICE" then I'd agree that it wasn't racist. But, if it is as I suspect, and your Dad is a Trumper/MAGA person (or MAGA-adjacent), and he's generally okay with what ICE has been doing for the last year - then that was indeed racist and crappy, and your parents are racist, even if you don't want to admit that they're racist. Maybe their level of racism doesn't quite rise to the level that you'd generally think of as "racist" - like they're not wearing klan hoods presumably. But that doesn't mean they aren't racist. And this "I doubt that really happened" and saying that your partner is ultra sensitive (more boomers accusing folks of being "snowflakes") all tells me that your parents are just run-of-the-mill conservative low-key racists who maybe don't necessarily \*hate\* brown people, but are just not at all interested in figuring out how are culture makes life harder for brown people.

I should have probably included that in my original post, going to edit it now so people can give more specific advice. My dad repeated a factoid about “ICE rounded up x amount of illegals this year” but it wasn’t said in a positive way in particular. It was just very insensitive IMO to be repeating something like that around someone who has family members possibly affected by this.

So she is a sahm with FIVE children???? I assume she takes care of the children and your home??? And now she needs to get a job on top of this??? What exactly do you do at home to support her???

Hi, first off, are you MY parents? I kid. Logistically speaking, it seems like you’ve gotten into this grove where maybe it’s not comfortable, but it’s incredibly easy for her to not work. You’d be surprised how daunting it can be additionally to start work after years of professional inactivity. 

There’s little doubt in my mind that you haven’t discussed this, but if that is the case and you haven’t said anything, first point is to talk to her. 

Additionally, talk to a professional. You’ll get armchaired to death on the internet but realistically, approaching it from an attitude of, “I want this to work in a way that we’re both fulfilled” is your best case. If you want it to work, avoid ultimatums. Be confident, express how you feel, avoiding harsh “you statements”. It sounds like you just absolutely adore your wife, apart from this one giant thing. 

And I would remove myself from the prejudice of other peoples opinions and judgement. Each relationship is a finger print, they’re all different.

You said you cringed when your dad made the comment. So clearly, he said something that was inappropriate. And then you never addressed this with your partner? You didn't think to say, "hey, my dad said xyz at dinner and it made me uncomfortable. Did you want to talk about it?"

And then your parents pull the, 'we're nice to him, so he should just accept our off color comments about ICE' is just despicable. 

Figure out who you agree with and proceed on that premise. Sounds like your parents need a wake up call regarding appropriate public conversations.

I see your thought. Though, if she felt that way she would be disrespectful for staying with me. 

Of course I wouldn't want him spending time with her hoping for more, that's why I said one should cut contact for a while. And if feelings wasn't that strong, maybe they could go away by agnolishing that she already in a relationship.

People are different in how they feel and deal with their emotions. But don't you think it's in some way disrespectful what he did?

i think that’s a good idea i might try and do that tonight and ill just phrase is as me being worried about something like this happening in the future and stuff and just making it clear that we have to have good communication if we want this to work . i think that’s a good idea ! thank you

I think a general rule of thumb is if you have to come to Reddit and write out your uncertainty in this many paragraphs, the answer is yes - the relationship is not for you.

Regardless of whether or not you feel anyone is a good person, a good partner, etc. on paper (he isn't, by the way), it doesn't really matter if you're not happy with your day to day.

Your 20s are some of your greatest years. Don't spend them with people who exhaust you.

A lot of this comes down to what your dad actually said. You deliberately didnt mention what specifically was said and that inclines me to think that it was either overtly racist or at least pro-ICE, in which case... yeah, Im not surprised your boyfriend doesnt like your parents when people are being put into concentration camps

I think it is very reasonable to ask him to reduce / cut contact with someone he recently kissed. 

Female friends are fine. My husband has women who are coworkers that are friends. I don’t care. But he absolutely has never kissed them. 

Kissing someone puts them in a different category than friends.

Who takes care of kids, shopping, cooking, home? Need information.

Imagine how fast he’ll be out the door if you ever became chronically sick or injured

I would say it partly depends on what you’re disagreeing with him about — some topics it’s nice to have your partner have your back, but if it’s something like different opinions on a movie then it’s likely stemming from the insecurity you’re identifying.

Work in your reading comprehension.

We acted like friends more than a couple for over a year. No intimacy, I initiated more than her but also I lacked general communication skills that would prove to her that I am missing crucial part of relationship. It ended up that we both started behaving like friends ( barely even kissing only at hello and goodby)  I could not function like that. Also we had couple of different views on future life...

I agree with your point that prenups have a place and OP should question flat refusal but no, "no such thing as marriage without a prenup in the US" is patently false. More marriages happen without them than with them, I'd wager.

Who takes care of your home and 5 children? She HAS a job. 

Please use birth control.

OP I just want to second this statistic. Manual strangulation is *the* single biggest risk factor in cases of intimate partner violence.

The stat that gets thrown around often is that women whose partners attempt to manually strangle them are 800x more likely to be murdered by those partners, but it's actually even higher than that, because in homes where there's also a gun, the risk rate rises to something like 2400x more likely. Research has found that nearly *half* of women who are homicide victims had been manually strangled by their partner previously. 

You need to take this as the life-threatening incident that it is. You need to consider yourself in immediate danger. You need to evacuate immediately. 

I cannot overstate this. He was executing a practice run to murder you.

dude's putting you in an impossible position here. you're supposed to just agree with everything he says in front of others? that's not being supportive, that's being fake.

  
his insecurity around these friends is making him want you to be his validation machine instead of your own person. you can support someone without abandoning your own opinions - those are two completely different things.

Seriously!  He’s told you exactly who he is.

You can always try sitting him down, and saying.

We don't have to talk about what happened. Forget it occured. Just know from here on out. Instead of us, or one of us being upset, or disappointed about the other. We talk to each other about it. Instead of letting it blow up to being something that it's not, we get it out, and we fix it then. Do we have a deal?

It doesn't address what happened, but it does address preventing what happened in the future, if he is willing to do that.

nah this isn't about your past trauma - saying "I love you" to someone he kissed literally weeks before you became exclusive is crossing lines regardless of your history

Being a good partner to you "crosses his boundaries". Criiiinge. Is this how you want to live your one and only life on this planet?

Hey, breakups suck. Even if you chose it for good reason, which it sounds like you did. Guilt, doubt, all of it is totally normal. I bet if you check in with yourself in 2 months time you'll feel different- not always totally better, but with more clarity. Well done for doing the hard thing!

You sounds really supportive of him despite being an ex that seems manipulative and he punched your wall. My ex immediately fucked our mutual friend before we even moved out of the same apt. Cut him off he doesnt deserve ur time

Ahh yes all men who want prenups are assholes and all women who marry business owners are just taken advantage of. Doesn’t reek of bad faith at all.

Listen to your friend. And do what she wants not what you think she wants . You you were wrong about your assumptions of her reactions before and your probably wrong now . Be her friend and don't run away from your friendship with her . And listen to Josh  . He knows his sister.

Either your dad made a racist comment that, rightly, angered your partner, or your partner is overly sensitive and overreacted.  Without knowing what your dad said, no once can accurately offer advice.

Because the work to run the household, life, children is what allows that person to do those long hours.

If you go into a marriage wealthy and are cheated on, the cheater gets half your assets.  Is that reasonable to you?  What's wrong with "my assets before marriage shall remain my assets if we divorce"?

Well all of this sounds like a nightmare. Imagine how much worse it will be if you marry him or ESPECIALLY if you decide to have kids together. Ugh. 

I’ve never dated anyone with this specific upbringing or mindset BUT I have been in a relationship with someone who decided they had some issue with being around my family because they had a very self-centered point of view and didn’t like the “inconvenience” of being around them. And then would make me feel bad if I wanted to be around them. And I’m not even someone who visits family a lot, maybe just a few times a year around holidays, so I wasn’t asking for much. And I can tell you that I always felt super lonely and awkward not having my partner with me because everyone else’s partners would be there. I hated having to make excuses for their selfishness and also just not getting to live a normal life like everyone else was. 

I don’t care how it’s dressed up, this is just some weird form of control and is emotionally abusive. You should absolutely leave.

I'm sorry this happened but can I ask what kind of things caused the breakup, you aren't giving much info, kind of hard for someone to understand the situation without some idea. 

But yea if you are feeling like you ruined your life over this I do think getting some counselling is a good idea.

This man LITERALLY TOLD YOU he doesn't care about anyone but himself, you have to shrink yourself and dread his responses, and I'm just sitting here trying to figure out what about any of this makes him a good person or partner. If my husband suddenly told me that he didn't give a shit about anything except himself and treated everything I did like a problem, we would be in therapy to decide whether we are divorcing so fast.

People can shoot their shot however they please. It's up to the person who is already in the relationship how they want to react. Maybe your gf could have ended up having really strong feelings for him too and wanted to explore those feelings vs staying in her current relationship. The guy won't know if he doesn't say something. He's also being honest - would you rather he just go on spending time with her as friend while he's secretly hoping for more?

Now your girlfriend knows how he truly feels and *she* can decide how to proceed. If you're confident in you're relationship, you should feel glad this guy was honest so she can take some space from him for awhile instead of continuing to hang out closely with someone who has a secret crush.

Getting therapy is probably the move here but damn, six months of no contact might help too. seeing her at that concert probably set you back weeks of healing. the whole "what if she's with someone new" spiral is brutal but pretty normal when you're still this raw about everything.

End it. I only made it about 1/3 of the way through. Red flags everywhere. You're young, end this now and move on.

Your gut feeling about this guy is spot on - developing feelings happens but confessing them to someone whos taken is crossing a line. The real test though is what happens next and how she handles setting boundaries going forward

You're not wrong for wanting to break up. And you \*can\* simply dump him, even if it "seems abrupt" to him. He hasn't been the right partner for you for a long time, even though you've tried to convince yourself that "he's a good partner" because he's fairly pleasant and fun a lot of the time. As you say, he and his mother's worldview is at odds with reality, and if you wanted to stay with him you'd have to constantly shrink yourself and isolate yourself and somehow make reality different.

This is the only adult relationship you've ever been in - consider that there's almost certainly something better out there for you (and honestly, even being alone would be better than being with this guy).

Oh he’s found a neat way to train you into stopping asking him or expecting him to pull his weight. Throwing a fit and smashing things around is to intimidate and manipulate you into never asking again. The leaving for hours at a time is a threat of abandonment. This dude is abusive as fuck and he’s just getting warmed up by the sound of it.

I mean *I* wouldn’t personally because I’m in my thirties and have been married for almost 12 years. The life experience would be vastly different.

He’s going to kill you. You need to leave, but this will be the time you’re in greatest danger of severe injury or death. Please dm me your location and I’ll do my best to help you find resources in your area so you can start making a plan.

Honestly... fuck your parents for their reaction. They have classic boomer mentality. "Oh you're just sensitive. I thought you hated us. But I buy you things." Manipulative and terrible.

Your partner should've said something sooner, yes. In the moment when you realized the comment was racist.. SOMEONE should've shut it down. "Hey that's not nice/okay/acceptable."

You probably need boundaries with them. They just need to follow what you ask, not agree with it.

What did he say anyway? I'm so curious.

I'm wishing you the best OP! Cheering you on from across the interwebs ❤️

He's using whatever twisted philosophy he has and imaginary "boundaries" to justify being selfish and treating you and the people you care about like crap.  And yes, he treats YOU like crap because that's what it's called when someone who's supposed to love you refuses to support you/go with you to/act like a normal human being at events that are important to you.

And your acquaintances look at you like you're someone to be pitied because you ARE.  It's utterly pitiful that you accept this type of treatment and don't think you're deserving of having a normal person for a partner.

What on EARTH happens when you have children, and this line of thinking gets passed down to them?  Don't for a second think you'd be the dominant influence on your kids and that they'd turn out normal in spite of him.  Kids are inherently selfish, and his way is SOOOOOOO much easier.  Why bother learning how to respect people and care about anyone else if his way gets them what they want?  Imagine yourself at events with KIDS who behave like that!  Take all the tension and anxiety over his behavior and multiply it times however many kids you'd have.

He's insane, his family is insane, and you're insane for putting up with ANY of this.

I was too harsh. Not every day but a lot lately...

This sounds exhausting.  Can you imagine dealing with his weird, insane mother the rest of your life?  Kinda sounds like she’s raising selfish, entitled little narcissists.  Can you imagine dealing with his crazy crap the rest of your life?  Sounds like he will always use the “I’m an individualist” excuse for anytime he doesn’t want to do anything…good luck with keeping a job with that  attitude.  Not sure if you want kids, but it sounds like complete hell trying to raise an adjusted and adaptable child with a moron like him.  I’d be so done, so quick.  You’ll be amazed at how much calmer life is without him.

I feel like he disrespected me, me and my gf's relationship and in some way her.

That's correct. Does your girlfriend agree?

I’m in my mid 30s and happily married now, but in my mid 20s, I might have been a little hesitant to date someone who’d never been in a relationship. 

I dated a couple guys in my 20s who’d never had girlfriends. I found that they treated me like a stepping stone, I’m guessing because they didn’t want to commit to the first girl they got in a relationship with. What if the grass was greener on the other side? They also had *very* lofty ideas of what a girlfriend should be. She should have a perfect body, should only like things he likes, doesn’t ever disagree, etc. 

When I met husband, who’d been in serious relationships before, he was so *effortless*. He didn’t get grossed out by female bodily functions, he didn’t have unrealistic expectations, he understood compromise, and he knew what kinds of things to put effort into, like communication and chores. 

My advice is to keep trying to date. You’ll learn more about yourself and what kind of person you’re compatible with, and how to be a good, supportive partner. You’ll learn what’s realistic and unrealistic in a relationship. 24 is a time to make mistakes and learn from them.

You do realize that this is filled excuses and you stalling, right?

But hey, you do what you feel works for you, and I really hope you actually follow through

Have you given yourself a set date? 

Your dad should thump your 4head

Why would you want to be with someone that only cares about themselves?

It’s normal to be confused about your relationship. When we are young we often outgrow our relationships. We are still learning what we like and what we don’t. We are not sure yet who we truly are. Staying out of fear of disappointing others is not going to serve you well. Nobody has to live our life but us. So when it comes to relationships we are the only once that have to decide if this is right for us or not. Remember, your voice matters the most.

You are not handling your emotions in a stable way.  For example, crying everyday for two solid months is extreme. And therapy should hopefully give you the tools you need to process this in a more healthy way than crying daily or having panic attacks.

You right to feel the way you feel. But enough of him, now the ONLY thing that matters is how your GIRLFRIEND deals with it. Itll tell you a lot about her.

he failed out of nursing school and his immediate response is to enlist, which tells you he's making a panicked decision about his whole future *and* your relationship at the same time, and that's a lot to ask you to just accept.

If she keeps saying that it's over, and isn't doing anything constructive to save the marriage, then you already know the answer and it doesn't matter if there's someone else yet or not. She might be continuing that part of the marriage so it doesn't fall apart right away, especially if sex is really important to you. Like she's doing her duty to you, so she isn't the bad guy.

He sounds like an asshole. If you try to bend yourself around him (because he ain’t bending for you) you will lose yourself. You will become resentful. And resentment is poison. You need to establish crystal clear boundaries and see if he can respect and share in how you plug in to the world. You’re not asking permission. You’ll see by his response how you should move forward.

Trust me I definitely didn’t understand either

He definitely has a point. This sounds a lot like how people use AI to make all their decisions for them. It’s not healthy because you’re teaching yourself to not trust your own judgement.

Can you elaborate please...

OP, please edit your post to include your gender and the gender of your partner.  This is a requirement of this subreddit and information that is necessary to give you better advice.

It sounds like he knows you’re there. You don’t need to message him or call him. Give him a couple of weeks. Were you living together? If not just continue to do your thing and see what happens.

I would recommend you start therapy because this isn’t a healthy place to be.

Everything could be fine/resolved and you can also come to the realization that you guys aren’t aligned as individuals and it’s best if you go your separate ways. 

There doesn’t need to be an ongoing or open/pending argument to breakup.

This isn’t individualism, it’s pure selfishness. Individualism would be “you do what you want to do, and I’ll do what I want to do” - and it may or may not be possible to have a healthy, happy relationship under those terms, but at least it’s not controlling and hypocritical. This is “I’ll do what I want to do, and you do what I want you to do”.

This man cannot be a good partner to anyone in his current form.

Yeah, go ponder that in your own time. I’m not doing free labor for random people online who pose bad faith questions.

I’ve been with my partner for 13 years and he also struggles with severe, untreated ADHD. I don’t really understand the whole “I need to work on my mental health so we should split up” thing. Why can’t working on your mental health while we’re together be an option?? That sounds like a convenient excuse to just break up to me. Honestly it sounds like he wants to break up but still keep you around for familiar comfort or a back up plan.

yeah idk the whole situation is stressful especially because now i’m being told to just drop it but im still upset about it 😞

OP doesn't even mention their genders. The fiancée is referred to as both she and they.  OP never discloses a gender.  

It's not unlikely we aren't getting the complete story.

This just sounds like a weird not mature situation/ relationship.

That’s a lot of words to say “I like my boyfriend except for how he is”.

Actually really reminds me of how my partner used to tell me, back when we were a relatively new couple, that after seeing how some of her friends’ boyfriends acted, that she was really happy she didn’t need to teach me how to be a person. Because that’s what you’re signing up for if you keep dating this guy: someone you will need to teach how to be a person.

If he makes you miserable to be around, he's not a good partner.

He wants to be by himself. Leave him alone.

that's so true, she's just met this fella and is refusing to see the issue. I can't really do anything if she sticks her head in the sand, and I've worked to get to a good place and an environment free from manipulation and anxiety since I broke up with my ex - I don't want to let her ruin that. 

but unfortunately I'm very soft and as much as I try to do this, whether I can or not is something else lol.

People over 65 who have health conditions can get delirium from not hydrating enough. I just wanted to throw that out there. It looks like psychosis but it’s clinically different as they explained it to me. 

I just went through this with my mother a few months back and thankfully the ER took good care of her. I had no idea something as simple as dehydration could do that. It was terrifying. This seems like it’s on a whole different level. I’m sending you hugs and I have no advice other than talking to his doctor and taking care of yourself. 🫂

He says that he cares about nobody but himself. Listen to him. That includes you. 

Leave this douche. He's immature and selfish.

Sounds like a cult. Get out while you can, OP. They’re gonna hand you koolaid soon

No it's just mid distance i guess, feels longer when you don't drive though

You are not friends. He's on hold waiting for you to realize your mistake and come back. He is mad when you are happy for him but don't want him back. 

If you want him to believe you're really done with him you need to put some serious space between you. Squealing and hugging, joking about putting him out, all of this is proof to him that you are still invested emotionally. 

Pull back.

I did this when I was in my 20s. I didn't feel like I cared about my job so much, or the limited social life I had or that I would miss my family that much or even just having any people around who speak my language.   
I thought I'd go over and live with this girl I was in love with and everything would be great, it was all I ever wanted. And holy shit was I wrong!   

Most isolating thing I've experienced. And I'm generally ok with being alone in the first place.   
My whole life shrunk down to one person and an apartment that never felt like home.

My advice would be to listen to your needs. Do what you gotta do for yourself, if you have to move back home then so be it. This relationship is not gonna work out if you're miserable, if it's meant to be you will work it out.

Holy Ayn Rand, this guy sounds like the world’s biggest headache. 

Leave now. In time, you’ll be embarrassed you were ever with him. The longer you stay, the more embarrassed you’ll be.

Great job answering their question.

How does being a housewife entitle her half of a multi million dollar business?

You are being used. Stop doing this and block the guy .

He wants you to respect his boundaries but he tramples over yours whenever he wants. He isn’t kind or polite or considerate or even present in your relationship. Just break up already.

You leave. You leave now. Sorry but that is how it starts and he will do it again if you let him get away with it. The world is full of women who let their husbands get away with it once and then it escalates and before they know it they are stuck in an abusive relationship. Please heed my words and  act now

Run, He has learned that being selfish is a virtue and not a flaw. This is the person that is supposed to support you. If you do spend your whole life together do you honestly think you will be able to relay on him for hard events like sickness and death of loved ones. Is he just gonna refuse to go to funerals with you too?

Some day, you're going to be absolutely baffled at your younger self's willingness to sink 4+ years into this master of nonsense .

Yes this sounds like he’s doing all this with a plan to win OP back, and he’s mad it isn’t working the way he expected it to.

The point of dating isn't to find someone who is a good partner on paper. It's to find a good partner FOR YOU. He is not a goof fit for you.

look into it if you can! its nuts, people here are putting this over real therapy, and it's really messed up. the guy who created this pseudoscience had really crazy views, basically for him all your suffering and challenges on your current life are connected to your ancestors, even the ones you never met

sometimes community property isn't the best option.

what if one partner has a metric truckload of money held in accounts that aren't community property but the other partner is the sole earner and all of her earnings and retirement funds are community property?

it maybe sounds weird, but I have a friend who is in this exact situation. he's very free with THEIR money and THEIR retirement fund but his enormous wad of money is his alone. also he can't be bothered to have a job. he does some housework, but can't really be considered to be anything like a partner.

why aren't they divorced? because he considers all of HER money to be community property and so does the law.  if she were to divorce him, he would be left with his accounts that are his alone and worth more than her assets, which he claims half of.

he COULD get a job. he just doesn't want to. 

he COULD configure his inheritance so it's community property as well. he just doesn't want to.

There's a tonne of info here, some of which is understandable or debatable or irrelevant. But... despite saying that things have been good for the past 6 months, you don't mention a single thing to suggest that he cares about you. That's the real pattern here.

But there not fair, they are old fashioned and dont represent modern times with either a woman coming in with more assets  because they have more opportunitys or reflecting older people coming in with assets they have built from their own work or a previous marriage. Protecting what you have earnt or built outside of a relationship through a prenup is essential in this day and age. If he didnt the traditional rules would leave him vulnerable and give her the advantage, the prenup would level the field the complete opposite of what your implying....,

You’re broke, don’t drive, live half an hour apart and think that’s long distance… yet engaged. 

Have you been dating for one month or eleven?

Ugh, many years ago I went through several Family Constellation  group workshops. I'm a wacky person but even this was too much for me, there's a lot of risk for psychological harm here, problematic theories and assumptions. Most of the people I met in these groups made very little progress but seemed addicted (probably not the right word) and imo for the amount of time some people invested, there wasn't a lot of change or progress made with their issues. Maybe it works for some, but in this case, I'm not sure you're going to be satisfied in this relationship; you're at odds with very foundational aspects of his (and his family's) worldview. It's a tremendous uphill battle to be in a relationship like this, I've been in a very similar place to you with a partner. If you don't want to end things immediately, or want to think about it, I'd recommend reading Bert Hellinger, and then reading some critiques of his theories and the experiences of people who have done FC (/r/therapyabuse is one place to start).

I urge you to do some searching on what Ramit Sethi has said about prenups. Sounds like a very similar situation and he talks often on the other side of the prenup and marriage about how much it GREW the relationship with him and his wife.

Prenups, when done right, are designed to protect both parties.  I've used them, they do bring a sense of relief, and they do help when things go south.  Your partner's use of particular comments are giving you red flag vibes, because they ARE red flags.  Giving you an ultimatum on top of that should show you what you're really dealing with.

I also find it funny how some keep saying it's about trust, when in fact it's not.  Trust is something which starts with a foundation & continually built upon.  Most times people seem to mistake trust for blind faith, when it comes to questionable behavior & actions.  Never put blind faith in people, they'll always disappoint you at best.

Personally, I'm not sure if I'd end it simply because of the ultimatum, or if I'd call them on it:  either craft an amicable prenup for both of you, or end the relationship.  Either way, I'd ensure my work & assets going into the marriage were protected, as they should for themselves too, just in case things don't work out down the road.

This is so weird. 

He's telling how he WANTS you to feel because he's mad that you don't feel that way. Tell him to quit having mail sent to your house and then start throwing it away. Stop responding to his reaching out. He's an EX. Treat him like one.

Sorry if I sounded disrespectful before, it's just that some people on reddit tend to make these judgement calls like "this person is pure evil" with 0 nuance and I wasn't sure if you fit into that bucket. It's pretty clear now that isn't the case

Oh yeah we do pretty consistently, well like 10 days each month because of money and work

Eh, probably can’t do anything about it now. But next time? Try “Hey, hope this isn’t weird, but you’re beautiful/cute/pretty. Can I give you my number in case you ever want to reach out/get coffee/grab dinner?” The worst that can happen is she’ll say no.

I was on a flight a few months back. Sat next to a guy about my age. We didn’t talk until the last 10min of the flight, but we shared a chuckle over entitled people. He asked to pet the cat I was traveling with. 

Lost sight of him as we deplaned, but bumped into him again at baggage claim (I went with the classic “we’ve got to stop running into each other like this.”) He chuckled, and we lost sight of each other again. 

Ten minutes later I saw him getting into his ride while I waited for my Uber. He rolled his window all the way down, had a big smile on, and waved goodbye. 

Overall, a fun experience with a stranger. But I was a little surprised he didn’t ask me out. Something about the way he waved goodbye at the end made it seem like he wanted to. 

I’ve been hit on so many times in inappropriate places. It’s kinda hilarious hearing men being nervous to approach women in totally normal situations.

Then ask her. If she says yes, ask her when she’s free. You’re overthinking this.

You and him have this huge thing in common: you both make decisions thinking only about him. 

Read what you wrote over and over and over again. Life with him sounds miserable and exhausting. He’s never going to change so you either stay and take it or leave.

I’ve never heard of this before but now I’m tempted to look into this and he doesn’t sound like he could be a good partner to anyone he says it himself he’s an individualist his life revolves around him. That’s not someone who can participate in a partnership where the focus is on two people.

Sweetie, this man does not actually want to be friends with you. **He is trying to impress you**, and is upset you are not begging to date him.

He said he expected to negotiate and find a compromise but that instead she shut off altogether.

100% agree. All you can do now is tell him, If I do something that upsets you, or you are upset with a situation that involves me. Let me know, because if you don't, then we can't fix it. 

Ultimately, it's on him to communicate there is a problem. He can't assume you can read his mind.

This! I'm sure she has already helped, indirectly or directly with his business... and will probably keep doing so while they are married. It's unfair to ask her to walk away with nothing if they divorce.

This will probably get deleted. You should be going on camera naked or sending nudes. You're a minor and it's illegal, even if you're taking the photos yourself. 

Don't do things for boyfriends that make you feel bad about yourself. Doesn't matter if he's horny, he can take care of that himself. If he respects you he will accept your no. If he doesn't, you're better off without him.

Have you met in person?

Wellll it's gonna be a long engagement because of money but as annoying as this is it's not enough to stand in the way of our marriage

How is that different from what they said? Are you for or against prenups?

That is beautiful and so profound. Trusting and wanting to see the world through your partner's eyes is exactly what deep connection is about. Thank you !

Right? At some point she will be helping him with his business. Either directly or indirectly. So why should she walk away with nothing if they divorce when she would have contributed something to the business.

Hmmmm. What I would do in this situation is take her lead- she’s blocked you, so I’d ignore her.

If the same group of friends ask to go out again, check if he will be attending- if he is, then say you can’t go because you don’t feel comfortable with him considering he threatened you with violence.

If he turns up when you’re there, leave.

Now this is what I would do. You seem nicer in the sense that you really care about your friend but in the end she has made this choice and she has to live with the consequences. She’s a grown woman, it’s not like they’ve been together years and he’s slowly brainwashed her,, she’s only just met him. She isn’t passive in this

That type of antisocial mindset only breeds misery. Framing it as a family/culture difference is you trying to downplay the issue I think. The fact is, this relationship seems to be making you unhappy: he won't go out of his way to support you, you don't feel comfortable bringing him around your friends and family, he snoops through your stuff and makes accusations, and he's controlling and making you shrink yourself.  I'm sorry, that sucks.

Girl what. This is just totally abusive behavior. Come on. UPDATEME

All these weirdos don't know how adulthood works, consent etc. Always have to resort to a child like mentality for some reason and that should be weird asf

So she's not working and not put up the slack at home....real winner here. I think you need to show her some tough love. It sounds like you are enabling her

Don’t marry this person right now.

sorry, i'm from brazil, and that's a pseudoscience really popular here. from google: ''Family constellation therapy is a unique approach that uses role-playing to reveal underlying family dynamics influencing a person's life.^(1) By acting out these relationships, clients gain insights into patterns and potential sources of conflict or trauma, aiding in personal healing and growth. This therapy can be conducted either in group sessions or individually, depending on needs.''

Nah it's too much of a mind fuck to do it all at once like that. That was the original plan for April 30 but I couldn't bring myself do it. It's just too much all at once.

I'm gonna fly back to where my dad lives in NV (crazy coincidence), talk to him about it (he said to get out a long time ago... I didn't listen), book a month Airbnb in New York, fly back after being in NV for a week or two, break up w/ her in person, stop sharing my location, then Uber to the Airbnb and be done. That way I can't back out cuz all my shit will have been moved out (other than the TV/sounds/PC but i dont care about those), and I already paid for the Airbnb. And I'm gonna make sure the Airbnb is far away from her place as I can muster

Now is a good time to be in New York since it's summer, and I have a gym routine going, I don't wanna break that habit since my life is gonna change a lot

people will have you behaving unlike yourself, and not in a good way, if you accept their shit behavior

100% facts I never really appreciated this fact of life until now

Yeah I was being facetious. forgot the /s he he.

"he is a good partner"... No, he is not.

Can you live your whole life never making any male friends or talking to men?

“Speaking different languages”

You are right on. You both are being, honestly quite stubborn about speaking your own love language only. Yours, by your account here, seems to be “words of affirmation” given how you compliment him and brag about him to others”. His seems to clearly be “physical touch”.
I feel I may be able to help a bit with this, since my wife and I are like you two, but in reverse - hers is touch, mine is words.
We were like you two in our first few months. We both were trying so hard to show how into the other we were, but none of it was landing because my go-to was to wax romantic about how amazing she was and how into her I was, and she was always reaching over to hold me hand, cuddle etc. both of us eventually snapped at the other since we both thought we were doing so much to show the other how much we wanted the other but we didn’t see the other was doing exactly the same. It was, to date (15 years together) our most devastating fight.
Once we realized the issue was so obvious, we both learned to speak the other’s love language AND learned to read it from the other. Now I know that her wanting to snuggle at night is her way of telling me how much she loves me, and I am now much more receptive to those advances. Similarly she is more likely to appreciate my long texts during the day.
Similarly, we both make the effort to SPEAK the other’s language. Sometimes I will stop myself from telling her how good she looks and just pull her in for a hug. She will, likewise, be more forthcoming with some romantic words.
But it needs you BOTH to be vulnerable and admit that you both have not been making effort to learn to read the other’s language and to commit to learning it. It won’t be as you expected it to be, but it WILL be the most effective way to resolve this for both of you.

This is a massive red flag. Do not proceed until it’s addressed. 

**everyone** has a prenup. There is no such thing as a marriage without a prenup in America. The choice you have is whether you both set your own terms, or if you follow the default terms your state has for divorces. There is no scenario where terms do not exist, so it is a red flag she is trying to prevent you from creating terms that benefit and protect your assets that existed prior to you knowing of her existence, because that’s what this is actually about. She is either too immature to understand that marriage is a legal contract or she is manipulating you because she knows the state’s default terms will favor her more than you.

You should block this guy forever and never let him in your home again. He's violent, manipulative and toxic and the way he does a complete 180 when things don't go the way he wants is really alarming.

What is Family Constellation/ energy? 

Sorry this is so confusing.

People are so dense if they don’t see why their partner would be offended by a prenup…

the tldr is literally at the begginning... english is not my first language, sorry if its confusing somehow. it is my first time using reddit.

Girl wtf?! If you were my bestie, I’d shake you. He’s bananas. Dump him.

This is why they need a prenup, and she needs her own lawyer to represent her interests and advocate for her. It’s about both parties being protected and settling things while they still love each other.

Curiosity is one of the best ways to show respect and love. If a stranger told me the sky was polka dotted, I’d laugh. If my partner said the same thing, I’d go outside to see.

And the government has default rules that were intended bloodlessly be fair to both parties in a divorce.  OP wants to vary the default terms to his advantage, and hasn't said anything about what he'd do to *her* advantage (probably because wants to change the default in his favor).

I’m assuming you used AI to draft this, because this post is terribly hard to follow. 

Can you put a TLDR summary at the bottom?

I mean, it needs to be presented as a negotiation. It sounds like OP went in focusing on protecting their assets rather than ensuring fair division and appropriate compensation for both parties. Assuming he has the higher income due to his business, and we know he’s older, he’s coming in with an upper hand and doesn’t seem to exactly be selling her on how a prenup is meant to benefit and protect her as well.

Pregnant -> children -> housewife,  resulting in an end of career growth while building up the other partners is a dynamic that does generally target women rather than men. One that defined most women their lives for most of the generations before us, and thus is a warning that many women have printed in the back of their minds as something to be careful with.

I was very clearly talking about a very specific thing that applied to this post where the person who is questioning the prenup is a woman.

This dude is gross. He can go be an individual by himself. You sound lovely and you deserve someone to complement that, not try and shame it out of you.

I think its fine but maybe just tell women you've been on dates etc but nothing longterm. Ive known much older people who never had relationships and got into one so no its not a deal breaker. A few people may dislike it but people will write others off for all sorts of things so I wouldn't let this bug you. If you obsess over it then it will just make that insecurity more noticeable.

A business isn't "assets you've already built." It's "assets you built *and will continue to build for the next 20 years*."  He's trying to cut her out of the economics of their anticipated shared life.

he is a good partner 

This is not the behavior of a good partner 

if he were with me I would spend the entire time tense and monitoring his reactions 

Refer to above

He doesn’t owe you an apology for sleeping with someone else.  

He definitely owes you an apology for all of the things below…

He said no to an open relationship but kept in touch with and made plans with another woman after you got back together.  There should have been no continuing contact with those women after you got back together.  If she was just supposed to be a friend, why didn’t you know and why didn’t he tell you that he was trying to push back your birthday trip to spend time with her?  I doubt he invited you to join him and her at the museum.  I’m sure that ruined your birthday trip because he wanted to be alone somewhere with her before going anywhere with you.

Mostly monogamous implies that he isn’t completely, basically letting her know that the door isn’t completely closed.

He prioritized making a woman that slept with feel better (hot and sexy) than respecting you after you guys got back together.

You are entitled to feel exactly how you are feeling. The fact that he doesn’t feel like he did anything wrong for going behind your back to continue his connection with these women shows a lack of respect for the relationship claims that he wants to be in with you.  He was adamant about your relationship being closed but it sounds like he only meant that rule to apply to you.

Yeah my wife of 14 years has her own business. The amount of sacrifices I’ve had to make over the years are nothing to be sneezed at. Lots of weeks where she couldn’t do anything but work. I did all the other work, but also, there was no emotional availability. Many vacations interrupted. Sometimes money sacrificed temporarily for the good of the business. She and I both agree that were anything to happen, I deserve part of that business. 

4 years in for the OP it seems unlikely this business is self-sufficient perfectly without drawbacks in terms of the effect on family. Pretending it’s a singular person’s work is almost definitely unreasonable.

No. Prenuptial is saying, "if we don't work out, I want to vary the default split, probably so that I get more and you get less."

That’s fair.. I suppose before didn’t feel ‘as bad’. Though I did kick him out immediately after and we stayed separated for about 4 months while he got his meds straightened out. His therapist and psychiatrist thought it was safe for me to move back in. He’s been stable for so long that I guess I’m shocked by the sudden shift.

I couldn’t finish this, sorry. Your boyfriend’s worldview is incompatible with what any normal person would expect from a romantic partner.

He keeps pursuing women who are much younger than him, a pattern that indicates the main value to him is one of the following:
1. They look young and that's what he's into (gross for many reasons)
2. He wants to have financial or social power over people he dates and ensures this by dating younger
3. He is immature and genuinely vibes with someone who is 19 when he's 39.
4. She really truly was a fantastic and mature person he happened to vibe with despite the age gap and he took great care not to take advantage of any power dynamics in their relationship.

4 is possible but incredibly rare. It is quite likely he sucks and now you're involved with him. Run.

Yeahhhh you guys need to just break up. You guys aren’t compatible. Yes, sex is uncomfortable for you, so you don’t want to have sex often. However, your partner wants to have sex and has a higher sex drive. I’m confused how you both didn’t see this coming. 
If you guys can split and you’ll be okay. Then, you should do it. For some couples once the baby comes, sex can become really difficult.

I also have to wonder how long it's been since she was involved in what her career field was? If it's been a significant time period, with how difficult the job market is today in most fields, she may not even be able to just resume working in it in the first place if prospective employers are already flooded with applications from others who have more recent and more relevant experience.

Also, having a garbage credit rating and/or a bankruptcy is not going to do you any favors when trying to find a good job in finance, you bet your ass they're gonna check that. They checked my credit rating when I was looking for work as a *pilot* for crying out loud.

THIS ^ thank you so much

Is OP going to sell or stop growing the business? No.  OP is looking ahead, and if the business is successful 25 years from now he wants to make sure that she doesn't get a piece of that.

It is what it is at this point.  If you dont tell him, then when he finds out, it will very likely be over for sure.

a lot of people do live that life which is baffling to me because arent you supposed to like enjoy life? my partner is my person and I light up when I see him and dating is supposed to be a compatibility test.  he’s failing so dump him. your man is miserable and not a villager I would want in my village.

i know and i’m sure things have been exaggerated and in reality i wouldn’t be upset if he had just been venting to his friend and then came to me with the things he was upset about, im more upset about the fact that i had no clue he was upset with me for two three days before i got told by someone else, and he was never gonna talk to me about it and wouldn’t even talk to me about it when i brought it up i think that’s the more frustrating part

I'm sorry this has been thrown at you and these sudden changes in mood can make you question yourself and the experiences at the same time. My heart is with you as a single mom. I hope you get through this with as much ease as you can.

You HAVE to find a way to safely and quietly leave. A partner who chokes you is significantly more likely to kill you one day (this is a confirmed stat, not subjective). Please talk to loved ones you trust and use free local resources for DV victims.

I only got about a quarter of the way through before my conclusion.

Don't walk, RUN out of this relationship

Every single time! My mom told me as a preteen, “no one goes into a marriage expecting it to be abusive”. This also applies to every single nasty divorce case you’ve ever seen. They never expected it to end that way when they walk down the aisle. With a prenup, maybe it saves you from the ugliest parts of that divorce at the end, or it exposes it now and saves you from the entire marriage.

God I have this same issue with my friend. Hopefully someone has a reason people act like this I cannot figure it out. Some of it seems to be this need to express that what happened to you would never happen to them, which seems like the classic needing to one up thing. But then other times it’s like just needing to disagree in general in a way that puts me down, for example, I was telling her how I feel like my relationship with my bf stresses me out because his family is always telling him he needs to go travel somewhere far on his own to work and grow, even though he keeps saying he doesn’t want to, which just scares me because he could change his mind and I like to plan and have the option to protect myself in the future. And she was like he’s (not “you guys are”) so young he should go out and get those experiences on his own, it’s crazy to think about settling down now. While she’s telling our other friend about her bf (same age, and her bf is my boyfriends brother who gets told the same thing by their parents.. lol) that she hopes they get married soon and sends them wedding tiktok’s being like omg this is so you guys.

Well when you are venting, typically you are in your feels, you are overlooking things, you're exaggerating things. Typically your accuracy is off. Once you calm down, and think about it, you tend to realize things aren't so bad. 

Of course now he has to deal with his venting story being told not just once, but twice, and a lot of times these re-tales, are not accurate either.

So instead of being able to go to you, and talk about what was bothering him, or maybe to correct his own mistake. It has turned into a 4 person drama fest, that isn't good for anybody.

Yes, and he wants the prenup because he wants her to have a worse deal than what the government would make for her.

I told him that immediately after he apologized. I said those exact words.. that this will be stuck in my head forever and never allow me to feel safe to express my emotions again. I know I need to leave. I’m not doubting that. I’m making plans either he or I will leave the house. I’m just physically ill over it all, I have a broken foot on top of it all and have very limited help. I had a friend offer a place to stay so we might, she’s a stay at home mom and I know she’d help me if I needed it with my baby.

He's nuts. Yes, end the relationship.

I mean, no? Like I said, I'll take a minute for a baddie in a bikini too. Honestly, will you never take this man to the beach?

You understand prenups don’t only apply to men? I’m curious how you come to this conclusion singling out men especially considering women initiate the majority of prenuptial agreements.

What other people have to say about you is none of your business. 

You can't continue this - you've said so, yourself. 

It's okay to be scared. But don't let that be an excuse for you to stay stuck. That's called a "Sunk-cost Fallacy" and it's gambling with your life and where you want to go.

Trust yourself and think about other times you've been scared and it's been okay. You can break it off. You have no obligation to be the same person you were yesterday.

When I was asked to have one done I just viewed it as one of the many boring paperwork aspects of marriage. Sometimes life needs to be pragmatic and boring and not sexy and romantic

The above submission has been removed because our AutoModerator has found that your post may be dealing with rape or sexual abuse in some way. If you are seeking direct advice on dealing with such a situation (or are asking if something constitutes rape), we ask that you please post instead to /r/rape, /r/rapecounseling, or /r/secondary_survivors (if someone you know has been abused). These communities have dedicated userbases that can provide and better guarantee the sort of sensitivity, support, and protection that may not be available here in /r/relationships. Please understand that you have done nothing wrong in posting here in the first place. We hope you understand that we are trying to make sure you get the best possible help available and give you the benefit of our experience in moderating this subreddit.  If you believe you are receiving this message in error, please message the moderators for reapproval.

Click here (once) to request reapproval and then click send **once** only.

The reapproval is manual, so send a **single request** only. Multiple requests do not mean faster approval, in fact they may clog the modqueue and result in reapprovals taking even more time.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

What worked for me was switching to part time, three days a week. The other two days I work in the home. I did too many years like you, handling 60 hr work weeks and all the housework/social planning/cooking/daily life issues. Then I finally got the courage to say it wasn't working for me and that I needed more time for myself and a more equal life. I enjoy homemaking, my husband (then BF) does not. So I was happy to do all the house stuff, but not at the expense of my own free time. He is also the breadwinner and make significantly more than me, so this makes it easier for me to just go PT. He also is the one planning for our financial independence and early retirement. He also does all the house projects and deals with the whole house garbage. So he has a few things outside of just work 😜

If that doesn't work for your BF, then I'd suggest a housecleaner and other ways to night pay to relieve some of the burden from your plate. 

If he doesn't like that options, then he needs to step up and be the one to take things off your plate.

Hmm I would think the contents of the prenup matter because if you're saying she won't have any claim to the business at all, it also depends on if she's helped you out at all either with the business directly or at home so you could focus on the business, in time you've been together which is about half the time your business has been around. 

Lawyers for both of you and maybe counseling so you can both talk about what you want a prenup and why she doesn't and if you two can come to a solution that you both agree on regarding the prenup and the relationship

Your girlfriend might want to get some therapy.  I suspect she tends toward gambling addiction

I can imagine, this is turning your world upside down. You did nothing wrong!

You can tell her how you felt, but you cannot control what her reaction will be, so there's no way for you to be certain that (to her) you don't sound like you're overreacting or begging for reassurance.

That doesn't mean you shouldn't do it...it means that if you feel like you need to do it, then you shouldn't worry about whether she takes it in a certain way.

One way to approach it is to use factual statements and "I" statements to express what happened, how you felt about it, what you need, and what she can do (if she chooses) to support you in that need.

For instance:  "[Friend], when I told you about the babysitting incident at the school, and you responded by telling me that I should have been watching the kid, I felt [however it is you felt].  I need to feel [however it is you need to feel] when I come to you to talk, and for that to happen, it would help me if [whatever it is you would like her to do instead next time]."

There's nothing unreasonable or histrionic about any of that.  It's clear, it's not accusatory, and there's nothing in there that she can argue with, because you have told her how you felt (and it's not like she can say "no, you didn't feel that way".

That's about the best you can do.  If she *chooses* to take it as you overreacting, or attacking her, or begging for reassurance, well, that say more about *her* than it does about you.

And if she doesn't act like a friend, it may be time to re-evaluate whether she *is* a friend.

You need to leave and protect yourself and your kids. File a police report and restraining order. Personally, you can’t come back from this. This moment will always be in the back of your mind. Leave, please.

This is what you would report to the police:

He ended up putting his hands around my neck but pulling them up on to my face instead

Have you been LDR all 11 months?

Lots of people look cute together. Means nothing. 

If you think your lives are intertwined now add a mortgage and a couple of kids. 

The number of successful marriages out there where the couple were together since they were 13 is probably close to zero.

Tell them “he started to choke me, then a moment later stopped.” That’s the truth no matter how he spins it, and it’s enough for a report. Don’t expect much support from the police, but please please please listen to the women in this thread. He will kill you eventually. It’s just a matter of time. When that time comes, how sure are you that he won’t kill your children too?

He will find out regardless

I misunderstood entirely!  I apologize.  I read you to be saying "I invested in my education and training, and therefore my spouse shouldn't participate in that, either."

Which raises the question why. Could she be unreasonable? Maybe? Was OP unreasonable in the way they presented things? Also very possible.

We don't know her side, OPs is very vague in how the conversation went and as such speculating is not very fruitful either way.

People also forget prenups are a negotiation.

In many U.S. states, assault is defined as the threat of physical harm, that is, causing someone to reasonably fear for their physical safety. The simple fact that he actually did put his hands on you could also make him guilty of battery in some jurisdictions, regardless of whether he actually "hurt" you.

I would have a major issue with the "ladylike" comment, you're not a stepford wife. He should be pulling his weight at home or hire a housekeeper.

From reading your comments, I'm getting the vibe that it's almost a social anxiety, feeling awkward saying the words.  

Here's my solution: don't say the words. 

Come up with a code word, or a signal, something that feels either serious and sincere, or funny in a way you're comfortable with.  

Then he'll know that when you tap his shoulder and waggle your eyebrows, or say "How bout those Packers" or whatever it is, you are saying you're in the mood. He may still make the "first move", in a traditional sense  but it'll be by request in the moment, and he will know that you are thinking about him and desiring him in an active way

If you can’t even talk about the idea of divorce, it’s IMO a bad signal that you’re not ready for marriage.

My ex strangled me and cornered me in a room. Later on he pointed a gun at me and said if it was loaded he would shoot me. He knocked a shelf off the wall into the side of my head and it gave me a concussion and a black eye. It started with him just getting angry and breaking things and apologizing like he couldn't believe he would do such a thing. It only ever escalates and I really think he would have ended up killing me. I started running outside and standing in the street any time I noticed he was getting mad because if he did something, it would have to be in front of the neighbors. This was almost 20 years ago and I was able to get him arrested and trespassed from our house and a restraining order.

If he is putting his hands on you, it's time to move on because it doesn't get better and you can read through countless horror stories. My mom went through the same and almost died. Get out, get your children out of the cycle so they don't repeat the behavior.

You didn't lose six years when you walked away, you saved the rest of your life from being built on a lie he was willing to maintain every single day for eight months. 💛

You might never have an answer to that. I'm so sorry.

I’m forever scarred. I’ll never recover

Healthy relationships usually don't leave someone feeling that way.

Honestly, the top comment are more slanted right now to seeing both sides.

Which is a nice win for reddit today.

Yes you need a chore chart.  Hes not naturally picking up his share of tasks so he needs a list.

If she immediately started boasting about her past the second you were honest, she probably wasn't the right match for you anyway.

OMG.  Ok, he didn;t choke you but grabbed your face.  Yee gods woman, what is enough for you to think this is serious?  Honestly you and the kids need to leave now, or call he police, make a report and have him removed from the home.  Just what constitutes a serious threat in your mind??  He went WAY too far, and if you let his go, he knows he can go farther next time, with no consequences.

Over half of marriages don’t work, and end in divorce.

I wish people would stop saying this. It's not true in a meaningful way. The "divorce rate," such as it is, is like 15% for couples who both have a college degree. That still may be reason enough to get a prenup.

Tell him and you’ll know if it’s bad or not. Full disclosure tends to be the way, especially if you’re likely to be found out one way or another. Better to get in front of it now.

Check into the law in your state about property.  If you are in a community property state like Texas, what you have before is yours but what is accumulated during the marriage is shared.   

Maybe you aren't a good match.  I would take her side.

Your feelings are understandable since chores should always be equal when both adults work. While it is not directly related, his work/lifestyle is a lot easier than yours so that rubs salt in the wound. 

Who is setting the expectation for the level of cleanliness? Does he expect you to do the chores? Has he ever stated that it’s fair because you pay no rent?  Boyfriends attitude here would be important to me. Is he just “lazy” but knows he is in the wrong? There is nothing inherently unladylike about raising one’s voice but it sounds like he wants to stifle your legitimate complaints. That would puss me off more.

This is such an age-old conflict that is very difficult to solve no matter how nice your voice is. Books have been written about it. I have almost never seen a man change over this issue without therapy.

Any chance you can hire a weekly cleaner?  It feels like a big expense but if it helps your quality of life and resentment it might be worth it. That was my solution with my (hates chores, “it’s not that dirty, you are too particular”) husband.

He had sex with you when you didn’t consent.

How is that not rape?

Turn down the martyrdom and listen to what your friend actually needs would be my advice.

I don't know where he's been for the last  ten years especially but if he doesn't understand consent and that no means no then what are you doing with him?

First, just no.  An ex is never a good idea, and actually highlights the fact that neither of you have actually moved on/gotten over the relationship yet.  Especially after such a short amount of time.

Second, you didn't slander his name.   He raped you, and you told your friends/family why.  He needs to accept responsibility that his actions are what caused the problem and ne needs to own it.   That means apologizing to you and your loved ones and working to gain everyone's trust.  This has NOTHING to do with you.  And the fact that he is holding it against you is a sign that he hasn't accepted it yet.  

Third, three months sober is not that long.  You need to learn how to function sober.  You need to learn how to be happy single.  To be a good partner and know what you actually want from a partner, he need to know how to be happy alone.  A partner is then sharing your life and making it better, not being a crutch to get through life or a support system.

Yeah it does deffo feel like more or a check in, i'm not big on texting at all either but it's our only option, I can't stand calls either with some social anxiety from Hell

I'd love to see statistics on people's opinions re prenups compared to whether they're the richer person in their relationship.

Your choice is between a man who cheated on you repeatedly during pregnancy and was physically abusive, and a man who is kind, respectful, emotionally mature, and financially struggling.

Yeah, but women are constantly posting here asking "how can I explain how I feel to my boyfriend" and then describing shitty, abusive relationships. As if somehow they could find the magic words to make their boyfriends respect them and care about their feelings. 

OP's partner is pushing and manipulating her to do sex acts that are painful (eg anal) and refuses to stop when he is making her uncomfortable. She's not the problem and experimenting is not going to solve the problem.

well yes, he can vent and everything but i think the real problem is he didn’t accurately tell his friend what happened. he never told me he got me concert tickets, he asked if i was free on a specific date and i have been assuming that’s what it is and didnt get confirmation until my friend told me that was what it was, and that he told his friend he gave me the tickets and i never said thank you  which then prompted his friend to tell him to refund them and me being called ungrateful. but i was never told about the concert when i was being called ungrateful

Sometimes the hardest truth is that being blocked is closure, even when it doesn't feel like closure.

Millions of people have health issues, ADHD and depression, but millions of people don’t go trying to choke or grab their spouse. 

Next you say he has mood swings but I’m sure he knows how to control himself in society and at work. He chooses to act like that with you. He wouldn’t do this to his boss. 

Is your teenager his kid? Either way your teen was awake and able to see or know something bad happen in your room. Any teenager would try to protect their mom. Do you really want to teach your teenager that this is okay and normal? 

I’m not trying to blame you or anything but everyone in the comments is telling you this was very abusive and this is how you see stories on Dateline. The first time should be the last time or he will know he can escalate more and you won’t leave. 

You say you been together since high school so you might feel stuck but it’s not 1950 anymore. There are tons of programs to help you get out of a relationship.

Your husband will try to love bomb you and have you thinking he didn’t touch you because he knows what he did is wrong and can end up in legal trouble or jail.

Pour moi c'est pas du tout un problème

So when you're putting together a prenup, it sounds like it all hinges on how well you're able to predict your future. But what if you get it wrong? You can change it by mutual assent, but what if your spouse has changed too, and they refuse to change it?

Maybe everyone's just better at planning their lives than I am, but at 20 I wouldn't have been able to predict my life at 30, and at 30 I wouldn't have been able to predict my life at 40. So I think the community property standard for marriage makes the most sense, and when and if you ever get divorced just try to split everything as fairly as possible.

Because it's the unhinged behaviour in person that's part of the reason I love her, i'm complaining about our virtual life lol

He sounds like an arse and he’s definitely passively avoiding you, take the signs and leave. He’s gonna ruin your mental health sis

I have always said the person you marry is not the same person you divorce.  I always shake my head when people are shocked at what their soon to be exes do during a divorce. "Why would they do this?" Well they are angry like you and are trying to win, like you.

Well they do sound like they're genuinely trapped since they can't work or drive

Loyalty is what keeps a relationship safe, but if after 9 months you still feel lonely inside it, you're not asking for too much love, you're asking for a relationship that actually feels like one.

Le him hook up with one of your friends too, so you are even. It will feel less awkward.

What stands out to me is that your post isn't asking, "How do I help her?" It's asking, "Should I marry her?" That usually means your instincts are already signaling caution.

OP should consult a lawyer. You think a prenup is important and will protect your business. But how do you know that’s true? What if existing state law already supports your claims? I don’t think you know enough to say a prenup is absolutely necessary.

You are good then, my friend.  I think reasonable people can disagree about pre-nups, but pretending they aren’t potentially emotional elements seems blind to reality.

Omg lol are you ok? I'm here if you need to talk

Thank you, your right I think I might be focusing to much on the fact his boss is his dad which is probably making me feel worst. I work both jobs mostly because the kid one just doesn’t pay that well. I didn’t want us to have set task but it’s probably for the best.

I would recommend therapy to answer that question (why youre still so drawn to him) instead of getting back into a relationship with your rapist.

You can love him all you want but he is not a safe person. You have to love YOURSELF more and move on.

Lmao they did the classic snark reply and block. Anyways I’m married with a kid, and went through the whole process so oh well they can cry about it all they want

1. You are not engaged, you are not planning a wedding - you get to break up with him if you want. If you were engaged and planning a wedding - you still get to break up if you want to. The best reason to end a relationship is that you do not want to be in the relationship. 

2. Gratitude has nothing to do with being a good match for someone. Absolutely nothing. If you do not feel like he can keep up intellectually, and he can't connect with you deeply emotionally - who is benefiting from you staying in this relationship? Should he not also be given the opportunity to be with someone who's more on his level? 

3. Learning to be content is a great skill in a lot of parts of life. This does not sound like you would be contented, it sounds like you would be diminishing the importance of your own needs and desires for THE ENTIRE REST OF YOUR LIFE. 

4. Memories outlast breakups all the time. People have relationships lasting longer than you've been alive, break up, and still have those lovely memories. 

5. This saying is an oldie and a goodie: there are friends for a reason, friends for a season, and friends for life. it sounds like this boyfriend was there for a reason, in a season, but not for life.

I have taken a Reddit post this seriously.

The analogy is not that deep. No one goes for a drive looking to get into a car crash and no one happily marries their partner expecting a divorce. But we can still prepare as best as we can for the worst possible outcomes. 

I also think many people assume a prenup automatically means you get nothing if the marriages fails, but that's rarely (if ever) the case. Instead, you discusses and come to an agreement on how any assets obtained before and/or after the marriage will be handled in the event of the worst case scenario.

The fact that he once slept with his best friend isn't the red flag here, but disappearing at 10 PM, refusing to explain, coming home at 1 AM, and expecting trust without transparency absolutely is.

Were you able to enthusiastically consent with clear speech? If the answer is no, it was a rape. There’s no confusion to be had

Update. I already have a friend asking if we need a place to stay. I’m just getting my bearings together. In the meantime we’ve planned 3 safety check in times

See, I’m going to be blunt here. I do not think marrying her right now is the right move.

This is not about her needing to earn as much as you. It is about responsibility, discipline, judgment, and being an actual partner.

She quit a $180k job to trade crypto and stocks, lost her savings, went roughly $200k into debt, destroyed her credit, and you have been carrying almost everything financially for 1.5 years. That alone is already a massive warning sign. But what makes it worse is that even while you are the sole provider working insane hours, you are still handling a lot of the cooking, cleaning, and household responsibilities too. That is not a balanced relationship.

You clearly love her, and I do believe she may be trying, but love alone is not enough for marriage. Marriage ties your future legally, financially, and emotionally to someone else’s habits and decision-making. Right now, her track record shows extremely poor financial judgment and a lack of stability.

And honestly, you need to apply the same mindset you use in your career to your relationship. You are clearly someone who is disciplined, ambitious, and always aiming higher. People like that understand delayed gratification, accountability, and risk management. So why accept the complete opposite in your personal life?

At some point, helping turns into enabling.

Trading did not work. Fine. People fail. But the mature response after failing is to regroup, take accountability, get a stable job again, rebuild credit, pay down debt, contribute to the household, and slowly earn trust back through actions. Not continue living in dreams while your partner carries the entire burden.

Again, this is not about income equality. She does not need to make what you make. But she absolutely needs to be responsible and contribute meaningfully. If she cannot contribute financially right now, then she should at least be making your life easier in every other way possible instead of adding more stress to it.

You should seriously pause any marriage plans until she has:

* a stable job
* a debt repayment plan
* consistent responsible behavior
* actual contribution to the relationship and household
* a long enough track record proving this was a phase and not her default mindset

Because if things already look like this before marriage, you need to honestly ask yourself what this becomes 5 or 10 years down the line when life gets harder, not easier.

A relationship should feel like building a life together, not permanently rescuing someone from the consequences of their decisions.

Do not get back with him. Attend therapy for yourself. He hurt you and assaulted you. I say this as gently as possible, but pull your head out of your ass. Someone who loves you would never take advantage of you like that. There are literally billions of other people in this world. Focus on yourself and leave him in the past.

You're not screwed because of who you slept with before the relationship, you're only in trouble if you let your boyfriend learn the truth from someone else instead of hearing it honestly from the person he trusts most.

Yeah I mean my bf was never like that. If we were scrolling on instagram and a girl popped up he would scroll past it really quick. Sometimes I would try to convince him to go back to it, bjt he would insist he doesnt want to see it. I think that he just really didnt want me to get insecure by the things I saw, or get insecure that sometimes he lingered on stuff. I do think the hidden aspect scared me and made me feel like hes hiding it becauae he secretly prefers them to me. And being such an anxious person its hard to erase that feeling. I wish we were more like you guys. 

The only time I can think of him doing this kind of thing is when he saw some porn on reddit, showed it to me, and then said that he wanted to try the angle out with me. But hes never shown me an outfit he wants to see me in, or a bikini, or something he liked that he would like to see me do or wear. It makes me sad becauae I would love the idea of him seeing a hot girl in an outfit and thinking "she'd look beautiful in that"

then why are you complaining?

doesn't sound like "the right move, 100%" lmao

Leave her. Why you’ll you stay with a woman who does not care about your feelings?

Thank you so much <3 you’ve helped more than you know

It’s not that. She thinks she’s got you hooked on her and she can be abusive and you’ll come back if she does certain things. 

She doesn’t care that you feel hurt nor that you are wanting a different kind of intimacy. 

Soon she will start devaluing you subtly.

Get out now man, she's not going to change

You already have a prenup, but the government decides the terms, so any argument against one is a red flag in my eyes.  You are right to want to protect what you have built and having this discussion when you love eachother is healthier than fighting if you divorce which is a possibility given the statistics.

I’m unsure if you’re being sarcastic, but yeah, a business owner gains a lot from having a supportive partner who takes care of everything else in life, even if she on surface level isn’t being directly involved the company. This does need to be taken into account in a prenup.

Did you have a question as per subreddit rules?

I understand you are overwhelmed, and you feel sick. I understand there are a lot of factors-including children-that you are likely considering right now and it is stressful and emotional. I can assume you are not sure how to do it...but are you genuinely not sure what you need to do right now? 

As a woman, you know how this goes. You've heard the stories, you probably know a few of the women who have lived it. The lie you are trying to resolve is you and he are the exception to the statistics. As a mother, and as a woman, you must know deep down that is a huge risk to run. Leave. Now. 

I know you love him. But love alone is not enough for a relationship to last, let alone work. 

If you need a starting point, there's an Instagram called "healing by the numbers" run by a DV survivor who details her escape and provides resources for these situations. 

FYI my boyfriend is about your husband's age, and has ADHD and is a diabetic. I have met multiple men who claim violent mood swings are normal symptoms of ADHD and/or diabetes. It's a lie, that has been repeatedly confirmed by research. 

To be very clear: your husband is a violent, moody man, who also happens to have ADHD.

You are babysitting at a school. Who was the man and why did he have access to you and the child?

Your feelings of wanting to leave are never going to stop if this is how you feel now. You might be able to suppress them and convince yourself that you can be happy in the relationship, but these feelings will come back over and over again in the future.

Set aside how he spends his day.  He’s with his boss, who happens to be his dad.  Just let that go.  

If some of your resentment is from working for his father’s company, quit and find another job.  Why are you currently working two jobs? 

Living rent free and bill free is a gift right now.  Save up as much as you can.  Open a Roth account for yourself.

Divvy up the household chores 50/50.  If hes too tired one night he can do his another night.  Its not for you to figure out, its on him.

You care about her a lot because?????  She’s a good empathetic person who knows how to listen? She’s caring and wants you to feel understood? She wants to have intimate connections with you so me makes you feel safe emotionally so it’s ok for you to be vulnerable in her presence? 

Who is it that you love?  Shells not two different people. She’s always the same person. 

Does she give you thee silent treatment and then YOU have the take the first steps after also? 

Her behaviour is abusive and a form of control. Is she  « the life of the party »  and you’ve fallen for her fun side?

You didn't betray him by dating someone after the breakup, but he did betray your trust while you were still together, and those two things are not remotely equal.

If this is a woman posting this, shame on you. You must be very young to write this stupidness....no other excuse

Even if he had somehow entirely changed (which he likely hasn't), there's a reason you're advised not to make big life decisions in the first year or so of sobriety. You are not in a position to enter a very complicated relationship with someone assaulted you, that will remove your support system. 

Wish him well, say goodbye, and a year from now if you're still thinking about this you can call him up and ask him to dinner then.

Also, some people don’t seem to realize that they can actually ask for things in the prenup and that they can be BETTER protected then if there is a nasty divorce and the person with more money just goes scorched earth. Especially if you are going to be a stay at home parent. You can absolutely ask to be reimbursed for the years you devoted to the house and business, let’s say, in the case of divorce. 

My husband and I married later, and I never would have been upset had he wanted me to sign a prenup. Too many people don’t realize marriage is above all a CONTRACT, until they need to get that contract dissolved and all hell breaks loose. 

You can also put clauses in that after a certain amount of years together they change. You can make it as flexible as you wish. 

But OP. Her reluctance to sign should be a reason for you to both to go to pre marital counseling, which I recommend anyway. I have a Masters in Human Development with lots of conflict resolution and mediation experience under my belt and I recommend it for everyone. 

Studies show the two things that consistently break marriages apart are money and child rearing. For example, one person spends like crazy, the other wants to save. Or one person is a harsh disciplinarian, with rigid ideas, the other is not. 

You ABSOLUTELY want to sure you are on the same page when it comes to money. Like my husband and I have a deal that for any purchase over 500 bucks, we check in with each other. Protect yourself and your marriage. Book that counseling appointment. Good luck.

The people who actually mattered trusted you, but the person you needed comfort from chose criticism, and sometimes that second wound hurts more than the first.

I am so sorry and I can't imagine how frightening this must have been but you have to get out and take your kids to safety too. I read your other answers, I am happy you have a stable financial situation and are already reaching out. Please don't tell him or threaten him to leave, you don't know what else he might do and you are injured. Stay strong, I wish you all the best and hope you can be safe very soon.

She stated it right from the jump..

So that will not change. 

If it started heavy and slowly faded that more about emotional saftey and rebuilding that intimacy again. 

So this is not somthing that will change so be done or keep shrinking yourself to fit into somthing you are not.

This sub is for asking for relationship advice. If you just wanna vent, head over to r/vent or r/trueoffmychest

By having an issue with this she's admitting that she's marrying you so she can take half your business, whether that is what she intended or not. But you would have to be batshit insane to marry someone who refuses to sign a prenup.

Damn. Never thought of thus very important point we all over look. She better not sign that dawned thing. If she does I hope it'll be fair should the worst case happen.  Of the company grows, she should get half of that from point of marriage onwards at the very least otherwise throw the thing out.

There are probably resources in your area that you can use, check for women's shelters, organizations for victims of domestic abuse, transition societies, housing programs. If any of those friends are safe to tell about your situation (won't go to your husband) reach out and ask them for help even if you aren't that close. If a random acquaintance asked me for help leaving an abusive relationship I would do whatever I could, some of them might surprise you.

I wish you and your kids the best of luck and a safe, happy future!

Assault. It’s assault. Battery is when you actually make contact. If your son witnessed this, this one of the Adverse Childhood Experiences that could result in a CPTSD diagnosis later. It is abusive if your children witness threats of or actual violence in the home.

My previous marriage didn’t have a prenup (my preference) and I ended up paying her $180,000 because she was fucking a junkie she met in AA.

My new wife insisted on a prenup, despite us each having equivalent wealth/income.  I hated it because it felt like planning put demise. But viewing it logically, it makes perfect sense

It's a tough spot. It's better he knows and you reinforce how seriously it's over with the other guy but you felt he deserved to know you had history with the friend.

well, it sounds like your boyfriend is bisexual and super closeted. i would be supportive and encourage him to open up but without being pushy.

OP I assume you're in the states? Idk how it works there but I assume you have an equivalent to self-employment and limited companies here in the UK, where the former you and your business have shared assets and responsibilities, and the latter it is its own legal entity and you are merely a director. How do you currently structure your business?

If prenup is an issue then structuring your business so that it's its own legal entity separate from you is the way to go. If your partner objects to this then I would start getting suspicious about why.

Well then maybe texting isnt her thing or she uses it as a check up kind of tool not for actual converstaions which is okay some people are not into texting

Block him and move on.

I’m wishing you strength and courage and hoping your friends can be there for you. If you can’t find a place with your friends, maybe there’s a domestic violence shelter in your area

Statistically speaking your chances of domestic violence and death significantly have increased. Is he willing to seek out help from a counselor or peers?

Being drunk means you can't consent. So it sounds like it was multiple instances of sexual assault because he knew he could take advantage of you.

He’s his child.. but he doesn’t help much lately. I broke my foot and he’s still checked out of helping in meaningful ways. I’m not saying too many details because I don’t want my identity to be caught on to, but we have 2 age gap babies (a teenager and a baby). We’ve been together since high school. 

I would have never thought about it the way you said.. and you’re right. I’m terrified. I really am. All I could think as he was charging towards me was that this man was going to kill me.

Prenup = Seatbelt.

Nobody plans to use it, but is thankful its there.

Yep, and he should also let her know that this is her starting point as well. She gets to add things in and compromise and make consolations for herself. Also people often don’t realize that they can’t be one-sided. They have to benefit both parties or they won’t stand up legally.

Even without bruises or injuries he DID grab you and he admitted intent.  Thats enough that there should be no issues getting it documented.  That isn’t great protection but it at least makes it a LOT more likely if something does happen in the future that it will “stick” to him.

No, you're deluding yourself. If you can't say yes, it's a no.

I think you need more time to process the relationship and breakup.  
It takes time and the nostalgia, the pull back, it comes and goes in waves. 6 months is nothing. You're both just starting to figure out the direction you want to grow in, but the actual growth takes years.   

Why go back to this chaotic mess when you're just starting to get yourself on track? You'll be right back where you started.

In hindsight it wasn’t s/a and he couldn’t tell the difference between me bieng drunk that night from any other night.  I’m just as confused as you are as to why I’m still so drawn to him though. I really wish I could just say no

It makes total sense when a partner is acting secretive to either actively seek out looking at something that can hurt your partner’s feelings and/or to not get into some sort of “trouble” can definitely spark up feelings of insecurity. I’d feel more miffed about the secretive aspect. I guess because we both watch porn together and apart, it doesn’t bother us as much. He’ll usually see something sexy or cute online and tell me he’d like to get me this outfit, or that skirt, and have me join in on asking me if I’d like wearing this or that, to get an idea of my preferences and usually because he gets ideas of what I like so he can buy me things later as gifts. 

So because he’s not secretive about it with me, and because we flow well that way with getting each other involved in the ogling, and we incorporate porn in our sexy time, it doesn’t really have the kind of impact it would with other partners that don’t want their SO looking at any of it at any given time. He also isnt really ever on social media because he doesn’t like it, and if I open my insta and a post pops up of a sexy girl, he’ll ask me “wait what was that?” And I’ll go back to it to show him. And he’ll tell me what he likes. Whether it’s the pose, the outfit, the look, and it gives me ideas of what he’s attracted to so I can ask for it from him.

You have kicked him out before, you can do it again.  You have to believe in yourself.

He said he will work on getting over what I did just like I worked on getting past what he did  

So what he did was rape you. What you did was tell people he raped you. These are not equivalent things.

Tell her the prenup guarantees that you are marrying for love. 

You will have to work this out through conversation, otherwise it's a red flag for you. At that point, breaking up is definitely a potential out.

He isn’t. He continued to spend the morning yelling and being angry but laughing maniacally over things and now he’s just sobbing alone on the porch. I think he knows this is it. There’s no coming back from this for me. I guess I was waiting and I shouldn’t have been. I’m reaching out to friends to see if me and my kids could stay with them or if he’ll just leave I’ll change the locks.

He will get a job once you break up with him. Trust me!

Wait, is the toddler your baby from a different relationship? Or is it his child? I assume it must be his child but the way you write about it makes it seem like you take all the load to the point you see this as your kid only. 
Either way, he wanted to kill you and sobered up from that feeling during the action. He may not the next time. Think about it. He was already murdering you but stopped. Please, get help fast, if not for yourself then for your kids. 
Also, why would you stay after this? What is it that you gain from being with him?

what does she do all day and why hasn't she gotten another job?

When someone tells you they can't give you what you need, believe them.

Sure but fairly valued can be arranged in a prenup. It seems she isn’t open to the negotiation altogether (at this moment in time).

AuDHD (so I fully get the struggle and have been there on the depression issues too) with a life time of anger issues here and…

Yup.  No excuses.  Time to go.  Get an attorney, do what you have to stay safe, and get out of that situation.

How do you know he will catch himself next time?  Doesn’t matter.  He didn’t really catch himself this time since it went beyond an intrusive thought.

This is who he is. You need an exit plan. Get legal representation, they can help you get court orders to get him out of the house.

:D you too! Metaphorically (if you like) and physically (in accordance with all applicable laws, statutes, and regulations).

Why would you want to be with a man who raped you?

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

At 24 sure, at 30 less sure. I know you say you aren’t ready to seriously date yet, but I think you should at least try a few (6+)dates year. Use the time to get some experience. Maybe you meet the person of your dreams along the way, but probably not and that’s ok. That way you are more comfortable with dating and aren’t the weird guy that never dated when you are ready. Even if you use an app and only go on it every so often. Then your answer changes from “no I’ve never had a gf” to “I’ve dated but never found the right connection”

You’re right. I guess I’m just explaining the behavior in my head to come up with some sort of reason why.. not because I’m trying to stay. I’m not. I’m leaving. Just so I can understand what is happening I guess.

That post was made months afterwards everything, I was seeing other people’s advice.

Also thank you for your supportive words😊

He is gaslighting you about what happened.  The next time you may not be so lucky that he holds back.  This is a major indicator that you are at serious risk of harm or death.

Absolutely, there has been a lot of discussion between us for the past year thats why things have changed a lot but more conversations are needed and I need to communicate my thoughts better as well.

He put his hands on your throat with the intent to strangle you. He admitted it, it’s not in dispute. He doesn’t sound remorseful. He didn’t even stop himself; you did.

If you’re waiting until it’s “bad enough” to get help, it’s bad enough now. Can you find a safe place for you and your children?

Depression and ADHD aren't an excuse for assault. Realize you didn't say they were but you included it for some reason. What if he got extremely upset with your toddler or your teenager?

Sounds like you've never owned a business

Thanks for saying 🙂.

Tell the police you ran away from him and he caught you and grabbed your face, and told you he wanted to choke you.

Be honest, the real reason you want to move countries barely has anything to do with your career or yourself, and has everything to do with you holding onto the hope of getting back together with her.

But she very likely is not interested in doing that. The relationship is over for her.

You're fixing to uproot your entire life to move to an unknown and unfamiliar area where the only resource you have is an ex girlfriend that doesn't want to be in your life anymore. You're gonna end up extremely isolated, and desperately regretting the decision. What would you do if you get there and find out she has someone new she's been seeing? Like that's the reality you need to anticipate.

Give yourself the summer to start healing from this relationship, and really make an effort to move on from her. Because i would pretty much guarantee that once you fully accept that the relationship is over and you're never getting back together, you'll decide not to move.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

 * It contains an external url.  URLs are not allowed on /r/relationships.  You must remove the url/link.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.
 * If you're creating an update, please follow the rules in our wiki and sidebar that describe how to submit updates.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to the content to ensure that the submission confirms to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Ah yes, because raising kids famously has such short hours, lmao.

If you have one person who’s working those long hours and another that maintains the home and kids 24/7 *which allows the first person to spend that much time on their job in the first place*, how can you possibly attribute all the value to the first person? If you actually calculated out the salary that a chef-nanny-chauffeur-etc would be making, it would literally surpass your singular“specialised provider”. But just because a person is working for their family and not an employer suddenly makes all that worth zero? Make it make sense.

Check out my comment I added above for some videos of what I’m talking about 😃. Funny to see that some people might consider my experience in life rage bait😄.

this man will kill you one day. you need to leave.

A person who has been violent with you even once is a person who inhabits a worldview where violence toward you is an option for them. No matter how long the violence has been dormant, he is at core someone who is *willing* to hurt you. It is extremely unlikely he will ever become a person who isn't a potential threat to you.

The fact that the specific violence he tried to inflict was strangulation is a very serious sign of the potential for lethal violence from him. People who strangle a partner are much more likely to eventually kill that partner than an average abuser.

Check out my comment I added above😃. Funny to see that some people might consider my experience in life rage bait😄.

You have been in this relationship so long you are conditioned to think that his behavior is normal, or not that bad. His angry outbursts and violent mood swings aren't normal or excusable. It's so hard but leaving is the best thing you can do. If you don't, his abuse against you will likely escalate. 

Contact your local domestic violence resource, they will help you make a plan to leave and sometimes can even line up a rental, give you stipends for rent and utilities, food, etc until you can get on your feet. Your soulmate wouldn't do this to you.

Your husband is going to kill you. Reach out to a domestic violence group that can help you make a safety plan

I couldn’t fathom him doing anything like this.

Why, if he already did it once before?

Yes he is. We’ve been together since we were 16 ourselves. I understand and I’m not questioning leaving. I’m just processing it all.

Girl, I’m so sorry. This man is not stable. You gave him a second chance and he hurt you a second time. Don’t let there be a third.

I honestly question the intelligence of anyone who doesn't want a prenup.

Sounds like she's content freeloading off you.  
She had a high level tech job before, so probably she has some skills and could get a job if she wanted to. Maybe it won't be the same level of job with the same level of pay, but tech is always hiring and she could find a decent paying job, no doubt.   

Even if she can't earn there is no evidence she's interested in pulling her weight at all. You pay all the bills, deal with most of the housework, and what does she do all day? And why would she change anything when she has everything cared for without having to lift a finger?   

What happens when you marry her is the dynamic stays the same. You pay the bills, you do the housework or pay for help there too AND you take on her $200k debt.

You really should unpack this in therapy. He stopped doing it half a year ago but here you are. Are you looking for trouble?

Yea I wish he would but it’s up to him atp geez the world we live lol but thank you 🙏 I really appreciate it

He has only ever acted like this one before and it was 5 years ago, right before he agreed to get on meds. He did hurt me. He grabbed me while I was alone in our room after an argument and tried to force me onto the bed. I kicked him out immediately after and we separated for 4 months. After meeting with his therapist and psychiatrist and his meds were stable.. we agreed to move back in together. Since then he’s been diligent with meds and managing his anger. Until now

Text 77877 don’t horse around with him and his roller coaster mental health. It’s just an excuse for horrendous behavior and don’t go back to him until you can say watch our baby or make the house safe for our toddler etc. goodness it sounds like he’s not related and has no responsibility other than to be a kind roommate

Try and file for a protective order! If you can get some kind of evidence where he admits to putting his hands on you (such as texts or recordings) and/or photos of injuries he's caused to you, that would be helpful.

This isn't normal behavior and you are likely in danger. Go to your courthouse and ask about protective order services. Most states have some sort of assistance for free. If the court grants the Protecrive Order, you'd get the house and they'd force him to leave. 

Be safe, that's so scary!

He's eventually going to murder you. Leave. Please.

Understood, fair. I think at the end of the day it's a personal recipe of morality/ethics/culture - what and how marriage joins two lives. With that being said, I would have a preference (and therefore a prenup) to ensure our (the marrying couple's) ethics/morals/culture were properly reflected, rather than leaving it up to the government, which can and has changed the rules through legislation and without properly consulting citizens on those changes. Why leave it up to politicians/judges when you have an opportunity to make those decisions, consciously, as a couple? It can always be changed later.

Does the idea of him looking at half naked women on his phone and their profiles make you feel insecure? I want to understand how a more secure and confident person would feel about this?

I don't understand, why not just go back to France?? Since that's all the justification you needed to cheat. 

Not to be harsh, but do you really think you deserve sympathy when you know you had none for your ex?? Do you think you could never cheat because that's what you had said the first time.... Still cheated anyway. 

Sure, of course people can grow and become new people but that doesn't mean people shouldn't know about the type of person who would cheat on a 5yr relationship.

He's going to kill you if you stay.

Side note, I have ADHD and depression and strangling people is definitely not a symptom, so don't use these issues to excuse him.

Go to a women’s shelter. They will help get you situated.

Is he the father of the teenager?  If you choose stay with him, that's on you but your kids need somebody who would have their best interest at heart.

Thats fair. I really wish I was secure like you, and I hope if I work on it in therapy and my every day thought process i will be there. Can I ask though, if/when you've seen your partner looking at half naked women on his phone while around you but he thinks you cant see, would that make you feel insecure? Would you worry about how often he looks at women and if he thinks they are more attractive? I hope im not being weird, I just want to see different point of views so I can understand how a more settled person might feel about all this.

It's good to think things through before making a big decision. Sometimes going through difficult things together can deepen our friendships. It sounds like Vic's a great friend and person, but is dealing with a lot right now. 

This is all on Paul and Vic's said the same thing, but how you decide to show up for her (or not!) can make or break a relationship. Give yourself and her the opportunity to show up for each other. Personally, I think you should grab some snacks, treats, or something she likes and head over. Plan for something cozy or fun to do together to get her mind off things- or just let her get her feelings out. Your guilt is making this about you (though your feelings matter too!) and not allowing you to show up for someone important to you.

File a police report. Contact a domestic violence shelter, they may be able to assist with temporary shelter or breaking your lease and moving costs if necessary. You can also file for a temporary protective order at the courthouse. When I did it, I had to go to court and file the papers, then testify to a judge why I sought the order. I included the most recent incident and a brief summary of his previous conduct towards me and recent DUI. The judge granted it and set a date for a hearing where we would both show up to determine if it should be extended. They gave me the order right then, and told me to call the police and show them the paper if he came near me, and they would serve it on him.

I dropped it later on in favor of him agreeing to give me use and possession of the home, only after he signed a legal agreement to that effect (something I was very glad to insist upon, as I had to reference it to him multiple times afterwards, when he insisted he could come to the house even if I told him not to.)

Not to armchair diagnose, but that does sound like a bipolar manic episode, especially after going off of medication. I have ADHD and depression and I’ve never been violent towards anyone.

Sounds like you've never been in a relationship. You take care now.

What I’m struggling with is that even when I do initiate, the underlying issue never seems to go away because my husband’s ideal frequency is much higher than mine. If it were entirely up to him, we’d probably be having sex daily and sometimes multiple times on weekends.

You buried the lede by not putting this in the post beforehand.

The issue here isn't you initiating. The issue is he feels he isn't getting enough sex to feel secure and wanted. 

You two can try couples therapy to talk through this and see if he can get some of his validation through nonsexual means, but if not then this is an incompatibility. If he NEEDS a high libido partner who routinely initiates to feel secure and wanted, then there is no solution here where you are both happy. Either you overextend, have sex you don't want, and force yourself to be someone you aren't, or he feels unfulfilled and frustrated. There's no magical solution, because it's not possible for you both to get what you need.

Yeah, I also don’t consider golfing a work day but I know that he has to do what ever his dad does or tells him.

Thank you, I appreciate the honesty. I guess Ive realized over time that I had a very romanticized and idealized idea of a relationship and of the man I would fall in love with. And since my bf has shown attraction to other women and shown that he has wanted to look at them while being with me the illusion got shattered. I take full blame for that and for how my brain has warped the situation. 

I think I also struggle with the idea of "seeking out" the content vs it just popping up. Like he didnt actively unfollow certain subreddits or clean up his Snapchat feed, so that content still popped up and it made me feel like he wanted to see it and didnt want to stop interacting with it. But he "technically" didnt actively seek it outm

The notion that a relationship could fail is not suggesting bad faith; it’s acknowledging reality. Over half of marriages don’t work, and end in divorce. Some marriages do not work, but the people in them decide not to end them. 

A relationship end is not necessarily a failure—in the same way that an ongoing relationship is not automatically a happy or healthy one. Relationships fail for many reasons, including some that can’t be planned for or protected against. Some of the time, ending a relationship is the beginning of something wonderful. 

Having said all of this, I really struggle with the concept of creating a legal document that details *in advance* what I want to happen if the relationship ends. It’s one thing to acknowledge the relationship could end; it’s another to make plans for what should happen to your stuff in that event. 

Making plans to keep your stuff (the prenup) seems questionable: You love me, but you want to make sure you get to keep your stuff in case we don’t work out?
That doesn’t sound like a commitment to the relationship.

If we have both love and trust, why are we starting with this kind of line in the sand? It’s offensive.

4 months ago you wrote "So I (24F) and my (24M) partner have been together for the last four years" so. whats going on with that.

God forbid men have hobbies

usually when putting together a prenup you’d consider most of the common areas of issue for divorces so like property, claims for alimony/spousal support, business accounts, retirement/pensions, inheritances etc. just because you don’t have something now doesn’t mean you won’t later, so they’re usually pretty forward looking. things like when my mom passes i want that inheritance to be non marital property or if we buy a house here is how we’d split it if we got divorced (who would move, would we sell, buy out rights)

also, just like any contract, a prenup can be changed or dissolved by mutual assent of the parties involved. if things change that make the prenup not make sense, going back and changing it isn’t impossible.

Is there even a middle ground? Either they sign the prenup or they don’t. 

No amount of civil discussion will change the fact that with the prenup she won’t feel safe investing into this relationship. How could she sacrifice her own career, do the invisible and underappreciated labour that allows him to focus on the business, birth and raise his kids and so on, knowing that he can leave her at the drop of a hat? And she gets absolutely nothing for all those sacrifices?

The only way this could possibly work is if they’re childfree, split all chores completely 50/50, she doesn’t help out with the business at all and focuses solely on her own career. Which by the sounds of things doesn’t seem like the marriage she’s looking for.

Cool. Buckle up out there buddy.

You are not a burden. Needing help does not make you a burden. Being in an unsafe situation does not make you a burden. Would you help your loved ones if they found themselves in a similar situation? Why don’t you think you deserve the same care and support?

this feels like bait

If (because of *her* needs for privacy and so forth) you cannot have *your* needs for a partnership met, then even if you and she are both wonderful people, you're not right for each *other*.

A relationship should foster and support the needs of *both* partners, not just one.

Should I have one serious conversation about all of this and see if things improve? 

People cannot hear what you do not say, so if you haven't discussed what you need with her so that she understands it and can include it in her calculus for how she acts and what she is willing to do, then yes, you need to have that conversation.

But.

You *must* not phrase it in any way that can be construed as an ultimatum; she must not feel as if anything you say has "or else" implied at the end of it, because if she *does*, then any changes she makes will not be changes she really actually *wants* to make, they'll be changes she makes under duress because she's afraid of (for instance) losing you.

So tell her what you need, with no implied consequences, and once she *knows* what you need, then see whether she freely *chooses* to change in any way.

If she does not, or if the changes she makes are not enough, then there's no future for the relationship, because just as it's not fair for *you* not to have what you need, it's also not fair for things to change so much that she can't get what *she* needs.

If it gets to that point, and things have to end, the only thing you can really do is be direct and unambiguous:  "The relationship isn't working for me, and I don't see a future for us, so I'm ending it" or words to that effect.  Don't try to "soften the blow" by adding in ambiguities like "Maybe someday" or "but we can still be friends"; those may lessen short-term pain, but they lead to longer-term and greater overall pain.

What financial assets does she bring into the relationship?

Yeah, we have had conversations about it, but nothing really changes. I know I also don’t handle it well I let things build up, then I either get loud or end up saying snarky things like “you don’t take initiative,” which just makes things worse

While I think the metaphor is a strong one, I'm not really invested in your agreeing with me about that.

There are a lot of “I” statements in your own comment too.

200k in debt, nope… not being a partner in some way, nope… next

Don't marry her unless she starts making good choices. This has nothing to do with her background. She quit a good job to gamble with crypto, ran up a ton of debt, and she leaves you with most of the household responsibilities. You live together, she should be doing half the chores.

I’m going to reach out to friends, I’m hesitant and feel guilty because I tend to stay to myself and I don’t want to burden anybody. But I know this isn’t a situation I can stay in or keep my children in.

Check out domestic violence resources in your area, shelter’s, support groups, see what is available locally.

Also, your friends might surprise you. Even if they cannot physically support you by having you move in, the emotional and mental support is something. They may know about resources you can reach out to. If they are your friends then they will want you safe and happy!

And yes, our son was defending me. My husband became angry with him and I stepped in.

If that 200k in debt is tax debt, there's literally nothing she can do to escape it. Bankruptcy won't touch it. The government WILL get their due.

A lot of this depends on her mentality. If she acknowledges that she made a huge mistake, is sorry, and is actively taking steps to fix the problem (like, getting another job that's hopefully at least 75k a year) then a marriage would be hasty but not awful. If she doesn't accept she's wrong, continues to burn money, and refuses to get a job again, then you'd be UTTERLY stupid to marry her.

Remember that finances are the number one reason for divorce. Not abuse, not kids, but money. Being on the same page financially is *required* for marriage to have any chance at all.

presumpious 

Oh dear.

I mean, I (not the OP, but the author of the post your comment chains up to) am pro-prenup, and I can completely understand why it it might be viewed as hurtful. I'd guess that most people would feel hurt by being asked to sign one, and would personally  broach the topic delicately if I were to ask for one.

Anyone involved in a prenup needs an attorney. You and her so both of you are involved and protected. Suggest your partner consult with an attorney and get legal protection. It will make it less emotional and more logical.

Yes, he forced himself onto me and told me it would only be a minute. He knew I didn’t want to and I was in tears. 

I am, I’m not questioning leaving. I’m trying to work through the logistics in my head and how everything spiraled so fast. It is making me physically ill. I am reaching out to friends to find places to stay while I save up to start over.

I mean- a bread-winning cheater might bear the cost financially in a divorce, but think of the partner. Didn’t they pay a cost or experience loss in the affair? What about the loss in being dedicated for a long time to a cheater? That’s a loss, that’s a cost.

Sounds like a question to work out in counseling.

For real. You have a lot of I statements in your question : do you really want a life partner, or do you want I? 

It takes showing up as your full self, including sacrifice, to build a real partnership where you are fully known, to build a biological legacy, to give and receive the kind of care that makes us connected to each other intimately. It takes sharing the efforts and the rewards and the pain. 

Do you really want that? Or do you want I?

You already have a prenup. It was written by the women’s lobby in your state along with a bunch of politicians catering to the women’s lobby. 

If you like that one you can use it. If you want one that you and your future spouse want customized for your life, make your own. 

When I got divorced the law was the “custodial” spouse got the kids and alimony from the non-custodial spouse. There was no provision for 50-50, or a custodial spouse who made double the non-custodial spouse, just percentages and court order. Virtually no one followed the state law because it was so bad, not even the judges.

This is the type of baloney you’ll be dealing with if you don’t do your own.

I can understand that. As someone not particularly interested in marriage or law, I don't know for sure what the differences would be between standard divorce law and that plus a prenup. I'm going off vibes and the fact that I don't trust the human brain. 

The idea to me would be closer to your first options, in making sure everyone gets what's fair (which is 50/50 but I would also talk to a lawyer about how to keep my inherited house while still compensating the other person for work put into it after. Because I wouldn't want to have to sell an heirloom, but on the other hand, a second person still puts time or money into a house. Or another thing might be, oh, I want to keep my whole collection of baseball cards, even ones bought during the marriage, because the other person doesn't like baseball cards. And the other person would agree and get compensated more heavily in another area.)

I suppose one thing that might be important to know, that a prenup might make no6w obvious than regular couples counseling, is what "fair" after a divorce would look like. What is 50/50 and what do premarital assets mean to each person?

No easy answers, that's for sure!

I'm a woman, and if I see a baddie in a bikini, I'm gonna take an extra second. 

Also, it's been a hot minute since this happened and it's still bothering you? 

I think accepting that there are really attractive people out there and that is normal to admire their beauty is needed. 

But also, you might need to unload this insecurity in therapy. 

My husband is a 10, he's super hot, but there are certainly people in the more attractive than him. I know that's there's tons of women more attractive than me. And that's ok! Because we chose each other and we love each other.

Blocked you everywhere? 

I would interpret that as an very cowardly breakup move.

I think the problem here is wherever you’re seeing that type of content. It’s just unrealisistic. 

It’s not disrespectful to yourself to have a boyfriend who is *check my notes* attracted to women and shows that by looking for a moment. 

What WOULD be disrespectful, is if he was actively interacting with/seeking out the content, comparing it to you, or some other form of higher interaction.

Something I struggled with as a young adult was taking things too far. Especially things I felt morally righteous about. It sounds to me like this is your issue. You want to be a good feminist, sticking up for yourself and the girls, I get that. But wherever you’re getting this rhetoric from is a bit on the extreme side of the ideology and taking it way too far.

He was physically intimate with you to some degree (can’t tell by your wording) against your will.  This is at best sexual assault, at worst rape. When you tell the cops about how he attempted to strangle you, please tell them about this too.

This is not how a person treats someone they love.  You need to flip a switch and decide to protect yourself and your children.  It sounds like your teenager was attempting to defend you too. Very likely your kid will try to protect you again and you will never forgive yourself if your husband turns on your teen.  Get your kids and yourself out of the situation first.

I’m sick to my stomach, I feel like I can’t breathe. 

I understand. I am not questioning leaving him, I know I have to. I’m just trying to get a grip on what’s happening and it all fell apart so fast. 

I have a business, I have money but not nearly enough for me to just up and leave but enough that I can start slowly putting some aside to start over. I don’t know where we’ll go in the meantime so I’m reaching out to some friends.

But divorce doesn’t come from an outside body. If the car was a divorce, and the passengers were the parties, then the door would be divorce. A seat belt would get in the way.

I’m not trying to argue too much about this seatbelt metaphor- but it’s not really congruent to the concept. The metaphor confuses and complicates the simplicity that is a traditional marriage, a lifelong commitment.

That’s sexual assault or coercion at the very least. You need to look into shelters or other safe ways to get out of this mess. Can you see about renting a super cheap apartment or hotel for a bit just to get you and the kids away from him? You said you don’t have friends you’d rely on like this but if they’re decent people I know many of my friends who’ve helped strangers in DV situations and would do anything to help even a acquaintance let along a friend. Do you have anyone you’d even consider going to? They may surprise you.

The short answer is break up with him.

The long answer is that when he doesn't respect your "no" you *get up and leave.* You don't give in. You tell him no, and if he doesn't stop, the evening is over, you go home. If you're at your place, you tell him it's time for him to go. 

You have spent a long time training him that if he presses and pushes and is selfish, he'll get a BJ out of it. The only question is if you can undo that training in a time frame that's going to work for you. I'm not optimistic, which is why I think you're likely to end up using the short answer eventually. 

But if you want to try to save this relationship because he has other wonderful qualities, you have to say no and mean it, and when he doesn't take the message there need to be consequences. So, you know, you take his hand off you. You get up off the sofa. You tell him to *fucking stop that shit*. You leave. And maybe he learns. More likely he doesn't, but, you know, if you're not willing to walk away now, that's how you're going to change this, if it's changeable, which it probably isn't.

In most of the world the drinking age is 18...

I mean regardless of what she does with this pregnancy, letting yourself get pregnant by someone who you’re questioning about long term is concerning. There’s 0 chance she didn’t have concerns for 7 months and is now thinking about it.

I don’t disagree. 

But the commenter’s argument to which I was responding was that work invested in a business is somehow distinct and deserves to be excluded from shared property.

My point is I have a hard time seeing the difference between business income and professional work wages.

Girl, being blocked everywhere is literally him making the decision for you. You don't need proof of cheating when someone just... disappears like that. 

  
I know it's brutal when you've invested so much time and energy into someone, but this whole on-and-off pattern you described was already exhausting enough. Now he's saved you from another cycle of wondering where you stand. Take this as the universe giving you a clean break to find someone who actually wants to be with you consistently.

Don’t. Would you tell your friends to move back in with someone so financially irresponsible, someone that threatens them, an addict that goes back and forth about getting help? You have to be your own best friend here. You have to do right by your baby too. Fatherless is better than the instability or abuse this child could face. If he’s willing to threaten a woman who just had a baby with physical assault, then he’s willing to hurt that baby too.

Sounds like mania. I lost one of my best friends when she went through mania. She did awful awful things to everyone around her, and is convinced everyone else was the problem. There is no convincing her because in her reality, it’s not that way.

I am going to reach out to friends tonight

Especially since OP didn't say anything about being ACE or having low sexual desire in general or lack of attraction towards her husband, pain during sex, past trauma, or other issues, it does feel pretty crappy that he's been expressing his needs for years and still not having them met. Making breakfast and coffee for anyone besides myself isn't something that comes naturally to me, but when I'm dating someone, I start doing those things because I know how much gestures like that can mean. There are so many facets of human behavior we all perform on a daily basis that are not natural to any of us, but we learn, we adapt, and we integrate, until those behaviors *do* become natural, because we put effort into consistently practicing those behaviors.

It's great that OP shows her affection in so many ways, and it seems like those displays of affection do come naturally. However, if that's not what her husband is asking for, I can understand this being a constant source of frustration. If you send your spouse to the grocery store for milk, and they come back with eggs, bread, cheese, fruits, veggies, and snacks, that's all great and very useful and beneficial to the household, but it's not what was being requested, and either way you're going to end up eating your cereal dry.

When is it time for her to recognize that her crypto trading scheme has failed and go back to a career that pays? 

How long do you have to give her to do it?

I own a business and can financially carry us through. I just don’t have anywhere for us to stay right now, while I have money I don’t have a large amount to just go get a new apartment or a car. I know these things are small in comparison and I hear you. I do think it’s a mental health crisis, I can’t imagine what else it would be. His parents also aren’t involved his father has BPD and his mother is out of state. It has been just us since we were teenagers.

please be safe with your children and try to escape from him as soon as possible becasue i feel like it going to get worse . The more you tolerate , more he will test your limits.

So you expect your man to be made of money even though he's wonderful and doesn't treat you like shit like your ex?

You’re 26. You can find someone you love who is also not broke! 

Financial stability is so important in relationships—not to say you should choose a millionaire who would treat you badly, but someone who can support themselves and potentially you (if you lost your job etc) is important. I wouldn’t date a broke dude again bc it was too stressful being the only person making money. Vacations were minimal. Eating out was minimal. And good luck having emergency savings. It’s not the life I want for myself or my future child.

I make good money and I expect my partner to as well. My husband makes about $80k more than me, so if I ever lost my job I can depend on him. But I also make nearly 6 figures, so I can also support us if need be because we have savings and we manage our money well. We aren’t rich, but we don’t struggle and we can afford luxuries (vacations, eating out, nice clothes or purses) at a pace I enjoy and is responsible for us, and life is (relatively) easy.

Veeery true, i do just put up with so much to avoid conflict 🙃

Should cost both parties

WTF kind of puritan baloney is that?    If two people grow apart or have different goals and amicably part, they should be punished?

Same here- met when he was 21, I was 22, and we hit 30 years last February! He preferred sport and mates, and dates with girls were just time wasted because he wanted to go be with friends. I think he’s hilarious but the best bit was he felt the same about me. Our kids say I’m funnier, which he’s had to accept lol there’s a lot of laughter in our life!

You can't be bought, and feelings around being treated like household labor shouldn't be put off because the family pays the bills. Unless you signed up to do the chores because the family pays the bills, then you're valid. 

I'd recommend trying to tell your boyfriend that you feel somewhat neglected and that you're shouldering more of the household labor, but pull him aside to do it when its not like, 7pm on a weekday and the question is whether to wash the dishes right now. You want the question to be does your boyfriend care about your feelings.

If you don't want to comingle assets why get married at all?

Fuck being ladylike. He's trying to manipulate you into shutting up and accepting the current setup.  He lives there so he should be doing half the chores. Your resentment is telling you this arrangement is unfair. Do you really want to stay in a relationship where the cleaning and chores are this unbalanced?

wtf is going on with these weird ass posts lately

Thinking of a termination maybe?

Just because it "doesn't come naturally" doesn't mean it's not important nor that you shouldn't try. Being tidy doesn't come naturally to me, and takes immense effort (I have ADHD so there's a big barrier for me) but it's something that matters a lot to my partner and I should be tidy for my own sake, so I try to go against my nature. You should try, if you want to stop the conflict

I second being the one that points out to my boyfriend/now husband the nice butt over there, the nice curves over there, the nice bikini on that one, dang! Look at those bongos! 

Plenty way more curvy, or skinny, or bigger breasted than me. But the man is with me! I’m super happy to be the chosen one among so many options. Plus I’m very happy and proud of my own physique, so I believe one has to work on their own insecurities without being super controlling over who their partner oogles every once in a while. We’re human at the end of the day.

Okay, I'll explain the metaphor to you. The car represents the marriage itself. The driver is one of the two marriage partners (the other marriage partner is presumably in the passenger seat for the purposes of the metaphor, though I didn't mention them). The seatbelts represent the prenup. The drive is the course that the couple in the marriage take through life. 

In the event of unforseen circumstances resulting in a wreck (which would represent divorce), the seatbelts do nothing to protect the car, but they minimize the harm that the people wearing them suffer.

Who needs closure after ten years when they’ve married someone else

don’t let there be a next time, lady. leave, and never again put yourself in a position where you have no one but a violent man to rely on. you need to be able to stand on your own. even if you’re too lost to care about yourself, you are putting your children in danger. find a friend or a shelter that will house you, take important documents, kids, and pets. if he’s having a mental health crisis, call his parents or the cops and let them deal with him. you’re going to be killed.

Have you talked to him about this? Like calmly and like in a normal conversation where neither are heated

You have valid points and need to bring them up, if he is golfing a lot that isn't a work thing. He should still do stuff to help because you both live there.

Depends how involved she’s been in this business — not necessarily as an employee or anything, but just assisting you such that you can dedicate time/effort towards the business’s success. Just making up an example, but if she did all the cooking and cleaning at your place so that you could focus on business matters, that’s not nothing. 

I’m typically on board with prenups, but if she feels she played a role in the business getting to the next level (either passively or directly) I could understand feeling offended by a prenup that effectively cuts her out.

I know. It stung to hear. I guess I was just clinging to the thought that with space maybe she'd reconsider. It seemed like a low-pressure way to at least try to create a situation where we could see each other again and see how things felt. We were always very close and could work through things together in person. It was after going long-distance that things started to fall apart between us.

Well for one this isn’t real but it if is, you’re a stalker and a psycho tbh.

Asking for a prenup for your business is very very shortsighted and yeah kind of disrespectful because you’re undervaluing the contribution you partner is making to your business. “This is mine, it was mine before you got here, it’s mine if you leave me”. The hours, stress, and finances weigh heavily on a business owner and even if the don’t take an traditionally active role in your business they will be the one to support you, listen to you, rebuffed and move finances around with you to make tough times work. They’ll listen to your ideas and strategies and pick up the slack in other areas. You guys are a team and maybe you could run the business alone with no emotional, spiritual, physical support but why would you want to and how could you really separate out their contribution and devalue it like that?

He said in a month he wants me to move back in

Each person in a relationship should be doing 50% of the overall tasks. Men’s expectation that women work full time, bring home a pay check, take care of the majority of household tasks while having babies is a big part of the reason for plummeting birth rates worldwide. Women have choices now and don’t have to accept man babies as partners. 

If you love your partner, I would try to reprogram him to the new reality. However, if he continues to act like a spoiled child, I would exercise your shiny rights to choose and find a new partner.

His psychiatrist was treating him for ADHD, PTSD, and severe depression. There was talk of bipolar but not formally diagnosed yet. I agree he needs to be on meds the rest of his life. 

I don’t want to stay. I am just trying to wrap my head around my life falling apart so quickly and the person I love becoming someone else faster than I could comprehend. I want to leave or I will make him leave. Either way I know this relationship can’t continue, I’m just sick over it all.

This is 100% reality for many many many women. It’s a known occurrence.

Ruminating on it 6 months later when the behavior has changed after bringing it up certainly isn’t normal though. This one is on OP.

You’re recently pregnant from this man and you’re thinking of leaving him? Just wow 😂

If the underlying issue is he wants to have sex every day and you don't, that goes beyond initiation. If he wants you to initiate every other day, that's a bit unreasonable if that's not what you want. Hopefully you can come to some compromise about frequency

Yeah but i see so many people here on reddit saying that seeing it even once or twice is so disrespectful and that he is just busting after other women and that I should break up with him because he doesnt respect me. Which makes me feel like im still being the cool girl even though he and I extensively talked about the topic and he stopped. It just makes me feel like I might be disrespecting myself? If that makes sense. So many people say "you can find a man that wouldnt do that" and I agree. But I want my man.

Yeah I'm having serious doubts now about if I could really rely on her. We tried to work through it but she was so depressed she couldn't function. After her working rights came through I tried to get her to go out and look for work or go to events to make friends but she was already so burnt out from living abroad. In the end I pushed her to move home and she immediately felt like herself again and started rebuilding her life. I was hoping that I could join her and we could do it together but I think after everything she associates me with the horrible experience that she had. 

Looking back at our relationship she has never been very reliable or consistent with anything so, yeah, I have serious doubts if I would rely on her to follow through with anything. I do really love her though and was very excited to move to her country. Not just for her but it is something I really wanted to do for myself and my career. It just becomes a lot harder without her help.

He knows this makes you miserable and this is acceptable to him, thus he doesn't change his behaviour. He is comfortable with your discomfort and, honestly, doesn't care because he doesn't have to change anything. Would he treat family, friends, or his boss this way? Man needs consequences, not just a talking to!

God these kinds of posts trigger me so much. 

I honestly don’t know what to do anymore.

Really? You *really don't know what to do?*

The question is “How do you bridge this gap when you’ve been trying for years and still seem to be speaking different languages?”

You are not speaking different languages. You are just refusing to listen. He is telling you "I WANT YOU TO INITIATE AS IT MAKES ME FEEL LOVED!", and you are doing everything but that. 

Just, idk, put some effort into it? Put it in your calendar, set an alarm, stick a post it note somewhere "I NEED TO FUCK MY HUSBAND TODAY". It's not that hard. 

Because the dude is telling you EXACTLY what the issue is, and in 10 years you have done pretty much nothing to resolve it. Imagine if you complained to him about one specific thing for a decade, and he didn't do jack shit about it? How would you feel?

I'm so sorry you're going through this, especially without an easy way out. 

The best way to ensure you'll be safe would be to leave him. What he's been doing recently (rape and abuse) are strong predictors of an escalation of abuse, especially his urge to strangle you. That is not normal at all OP, that's quite serious. 

Do you have any money set aside you could use to leave? 
Why did he stop taking his meds? Clearly he's not well.

having a prenup means everyone knows what will happen in the event of a divorce.

Here's my question about prenups: things change over years, so what if you have a completely different situation a decade in that you really couldn't plan for? Hope your spouse agrees the rewrite the prenup?

I've been married twice, and never had a prenup. Just didn't think of it. The first time, when we met we didn't have any assets, just a beater car each, so of course we didn't think about prenups. When we split a decade later, we had a house and a business and retirement accounts, etc, and we managed to split things up pretty amicably. But even if we hadn't been amicable, I can't imagine ourselves 10 years younger would've been able to predict and plan any of it.

My second marriage is one where people online now would recommend prenups, though I didn't have any friends who had prenups and again I didn't think about it. I had a house and a (smaller) retirement account after the first divorce, as well as a nice car, and my spouse had zero assets (not even a car). We weren't planning on children at the time, but things change, and now we have two kids, one being special needs and my spouse is a stay at home parent while my career has taken off with their support. If we had gotten a prenup before that protected all my assets, what would that mean now if we were to get a divorce? Would my spouse be looking at getting basically nothing in a divorce? Would the prenup become basically void with a stay at home parent situation (meaning that time making it would've been wasted)? Or would it all depend on how well we could've predicted our lives 15+ years in the future? (Which is not well)

Maybe I just have some misconceptions about prenups, since I've never been through the process.

Lost interest. Period.

I agree with this sentiment. 

I love my wife, never even considered the idea of cheating/being unfaithful. 

I’m still gonna look at a pretty girl and think “ooh pretty” 

Sometimes she even points them out! We were walking down a beach a few months ago and she kept pointing out nice butts male or female to admire!

Yes. Those are the answers.. just because (we both weren’t sure if they were making him more tired or not and he has been struggling with feeling emotionally blunted) and his psychiatrist fired him as a patient last week for missing two appointments.

It's not about living in the family home, it's about presenting as if they are TRAPPED and HELPLESS in the family home. I genuinely thought OP was a teen. It sounds like a shitty situation, and I hope they can get themselves/their non-dad family safe.

You can understand but not have to put up with it... that would annoy the shit out of me

I don’t understand why pro-prenup people can’t admit even that it *might* be an emotionally tricky/offensive subject.  One might think, to them personally, it isn’t.  Or that it’s worth the emotional turmoil because the pros outweigh the cons.  To pretend that it is entirely neutral or there’s no reasonable way someone could view it as offensive is wild to me.

Jeez, the bar is in hell. What is there to question? He doesn't want to talk to you.

He’s still an addict if he gets clean. Once an addict, always an addict, but there is more nuance to it. He would need to do a lot of serious and extensive work to right what he’s done to himself and others. This isn’t an apologize and move on situation. There has to be meaningful, repeated action and accountability. You cannot do any of that for him. You replied to someone else saying he doesn’t threaten you, but threatening to slap you IS A THREAT. No one in their right mind would do that, especially to someone who just went through childbirth and has a newborn, especially to someone they love. I’m sorry, but he loves the gambling and cocaine more than you if he thinks you just need to get over it so he can come back and keep putting you and your baby in danger. Please listen to your friends and family. They think negatively of him because of HIS actions, and his actions are who he is.

You don't understand it because you don't want to. Simple as that.

Every human being has needs of some kind. You do too. I guarantee there are things you want from your husband, and if you weren't getting them from him, you'd be upset.

Instead of playing mind games - your husband has straight-up communicated them to you multiple times. He's looking for more initiation and enthusiasm from you.

You say you love this man...but all of your comments and the hard stance you're taking here tells a different story. You can say you're attracted to him, that you desire him, that you enjoy the sex...but you aren't proving it to him. He's absolutely right.

He blocked you everywhere? Move on with your life. Stop being his back up plan.

I understand. They will come first. I am just in shock, this was my soul mate and who I’ve been with for 20+ years. I couldn’t fathom him doing anything like this. The last month something changed in him and I guess I’m having emotional whiplash from it all because I can’t wrap my head around it. I don’t know where to even start with leaving but I know that this isn’t a risk I can keep taking for myself or them.

You need to put up some boundaries. She needs to treat you with respect. Y’all are young, so I get it. But you need to say something or move on

That’s my thought too. If you marry a surgeon or a specialized provider who will be on call and work long hours, why would you be entitled to their wages? Especially if you’ve met after they have achieved the level they are now

FYI- it really sucks as a woman, too. Sexual mismatch is always freaking rough.

if he was on mood stabilizers, he probably needs to be on them again. most people who go onto mood stabilizers tend to be on them for a long time because personality disorders NEED to be medicated. 

He’s already assaulted you twice, yet you want to stay?

I'd echo what others have said, perhaps therapy could be useful to get over the hump. But to just be very blunt, it sounds (based on your own retelling) that he has been extremely clear and direct about what he desires, how it makes him feel, how it would improve your relationship, etc. The final step, and I'm not trying to be dismissive, is for you to JUST DO IT. Everyone has different "love languages" or whatever you want to call it, but it's your choice whether you want to show him the love he needs or if you want him to feel lonely and undesired. 

  
The good news is, speaking as a man, men are pretty easy. It doesn't take much. For example, greeting him at the door with only a robe on and then dropping it. While cuddling on the couch, simply place your hand on his dick and balls and give them a little squeeze. Maybe get close to his ear and say "I want you to fuck me right now." Really any of these is probably all it would take. Have a glass of wine, smoke a joint, take a shot, whatever it takes for you to lose some inhibitions, and give your husband what he is specifically, explicitly and respectfully asking for.

  
Perhaps these actions are not how you're "naturally wired", but you concretely know that not doing them is making your husband feel alone. That's what a relationship is - putting the other person first, identifying the ways they feel loved, and working to provide that. You are his only sexual outlet, he has rested his entire sexual life on you, so honestly just refusing to engage with this at all comes off as fairly selfish. Again, you have all the information. The only person who can make it happen is you.

The question is whether a prenup is like car insurance, or whether it's like asking for a paternity test when your wife says she's pregnant.

One of them is "life happens", one of them is "I am preparing for your inevitable betrayal".

Victims of just one strangulation are 800 percent more likely to become a victim of homicide by the same partner in the future

You need to find a way (anyone in your social circle ? Friend ? Family ? Or social services ?) to leave

Cool. A contract was broken and it costed one or both people. 

I hope you find a partner down for a prenup, I really do. 

Marriage is a contract. Pay attention to your vows and live up to your commitment.

Please listen to what she's telling you and act accordingly. She's offering friendship; she isn't trying to get back together with you.

Why did he stop his medication? What doctors is he actively seeing? 

If it is just because, and none, you have serious problems.

It feels awkward because you don't do it. Whenever you're learning a new skill it feels weird at first. You aren't doing this to make him feel loved, hopefully you can find a way to do it because you do love him and that's what he needs. I get not wanting to have sex every day. But I think that's worth a conversation with him. It sounds like you need to have a sit down with him and you both openly talk about sex and what you like, what you don't like, what you would like to try, etc. A lot of these issues can feel awkward to talk about until you notice that they feel awkward, too. Being vulnerable can feel really awkward but if you do it together it's a bit easier.

I’m 42F (been together 22 years), and I generally initiate most times. My husband finds it extremely attractive when I jump his bones. 

To me it sounds like you have the lower libido, since you did not notice when he stopped initiating. Given you are the lower libido, it makes sense he wants you to initiate.

Why do you struggle with initiating? Do you orgasm  most of the time? If not, have you two tried toys and others things for you to enjoy sex more? 

Early 30s is still a little early for perimenopause. So I doubt that’s it.

Oh bohoohoo. Come live in the real world.

I literally have nobody. I have friends but none that I feel I could count on in this scenario, I don’t have family (both parents have been out of my life since my teens and are addicts). I don’t even know where to start or go. I don’t have a car. I have nothing. I know that’s cliche to say but I am just in shock and I don’t know what to do.

The idea of a prenup has been bastardized by hollywood. "I took him for all hes worth!"

Maybe she doesnt understand? Without a prenup, right now she gets half your company. Does she think thats fair that she gets half of the rewards for 4 years of your work?

I would imagine that you want a prenup that just protects your businesses value prior to being with her. But after she would get a payout of 50%

They have no children. What labor, sacrifices, and support has she contributed to the business to ensure its growth and success? 

She should be getting zero here unless she has directly contributed financially or via labor

You can go into a marriage with the attitude of "what's mine is mine, what's yours is yours, and there will be no mingling" as long as you've both agreed to that up-front.

The default in community-property states is that wealth built during the marriage belongs to the couple, not to one partner in the couple.  Why should your partner be afforded any compensation?   Because it's a *partnership*, not two boats sailing on the same lake.

I think you may be right. Ironically a reason she gave for breaking up with me was that she didn't want to go through the stress of a visa process again. We had just gone through hell trying to get her rights to work in the country where we were living. This is partly what led to the burnout. I was really surprised after the breakup when she offered to still help me move. She mentioned she'd do it if we had good communication and "were really good friends". I was hoping that this could be an opportunity to give her the space to rebuild herself and leave a door open to get back together later, but I'm not sure how healthy of a mindset that is.

You’ve been together 8 months and she told you she just found out she was pregnant by someone she worked with. Joke or not, she thought it was funny to make you think that she cheated on you.  I would personally be done.  None of that is funny.

Unless you harass her, how will this jeopardize your job in anyway? Worst case is she says no and you both move on with your life. This isn’t high school, you’re making up scenarios and making this bigger than it should be.

How often are you having sex? I also don’t feel wanted and my wife gets mad when I bring it up. But we basically need to schedule sex because of the kids. There is zero spontaneity at this point and that’s ok for now. Not everyone is completely on the same wave length when it comes to sex. The important thing is to keep talking about it and trying to work on it otherwise resentment can set in.

Right- they divorce and it costs. Because a contract was broken.

I will add that a few days ago we got into a pretty bad argument. He insisted on ‘making up’ and I truly didn’t want to be touched. He would not leave me alone and he knew I didn’t want to. He ended up getting on top of me anyway, telling me it will only be a minute. I felt a part of myself just break. Again this isn’t like him. I do know he stopped his mood stabilizers, I’m not sure if this is the result. He has always been loving and patient and understanding. I think I’m just so taken aback by the sudden change of behavior and lack of care of my physical being.

Yes this- it can be really simple. I just tell my partner I am going to shower and then I come back in lingerie or nothing at all and climb in his lap. That's all it takes

I think a lot of people would be bothered seeing their partner scrolling bikini model content early in a relationship. The feeling itself is pretty normal

At 40, I would find it more believable for someone to say they just weren't interested. If you're interested in dating and you make it to 40 without dating at all, something else is at play. I've been single by choice for years but that is not the same as looking and finding no one.

Yes. Abuse is abuse.

You are being abused, and probably your kids by the sound of it.

Leave, file a report.

On one hand I do agree. My partner likes their shoulders rubbed, okay. I rub the shoulders. Within reason ofc

Sex can be a much more intimate and loaded thing but after 13 years of marriage hopefully it's a bit less loaded and more secure. 

You say it just doesn't occur to you, but it has to be something more than that. Try interrogating yourself. When you're giving him little kisses and touches throughout the day I'm sure it's lovely but if the opportunity arises drag him to bed. 

I'd also want to explore what "initiation" looks and feels like to him. Maybe on some level you are initiating but are looking to him for more approval? Do you just close your eyes and dream of England? Do you starfish and disassociate?

also you tell the police you are scared of this man hurting you, he has already put his hands on you.

So you want children and are you expecting her to bear them?

If so, I think the prenup is kind of offensive. It's ok for her to risk her body and health to bear you children but you don't want to risk your business $ for her? Eh, I don't love that attitude.

Genuinely have a hard time with social skills and I’m worried that it will jeopardise my work

it's like you're doing everything you can to pretend you don't know what your husband wants. so infuriating

If I were in your shoes, my biggest fear would be that she would do it again. She broke up because of how she felt but did she every try to work with you to resolve the issue? Did you ever talk about ways to help her feel less dependent on you?

And your move sounds risky. Unless it's something you seriously want, I'd hold off. Say she does help you get a partner visa. What happens if she breaks it off again? Would you have to leave?

To be honest, I'd be rethinking having her in my life at all at this point. The trust simply wouldn't be there like it used to be.

You are so right. If you polled most divorced people they would likely tell you that they meant every word they said in the wedding day vows. You don't ever think that something so good with someone who is so right for you will ever end.

And sadly, many marriages that had so much hope and faith in the beginning do utterly fail. 

And once you go through a divorce, you come out of it banged up emotionally--sometimes financially, and you understand that if you ever choose to marry again that you have to look at the possible ending at the  beginning after the prior experience.

I get what you're saying, but the opposite happened to me.  No prenup, I meant my vows, my ex wife wanted the divorce, and I was the one who ended up financially shafted through the divorce.  6 years later I'm still recovering from it.  

This is also extremely common. 

If I ever remarry, it will include a prenup.

“He didnt actually do it” is such a sorry excuse. I wasn’t beat for the first 13 years of my life, but my dad decided bad grades were enough to beat me. It was fine for 13 years, and then my dad abused me. So like… from personal experience it doesnt matter. Anger issues and even *slight* violence is an indicator that *he will hurt you*

Should cost both parties- it’s not really explained in traditional marriage because it’s a life long commitment. 

So those costs usually are left up to the courts to decide. 

I get your point. I really do. But if two people are getting married, and one wants a traditional lifelong commitment, and the other a prenup- I don’t think that couple is ready for marriage. Because they’re not on the same page. 

If both are down with a prenup- go for it. Easy outs for everyone.

If people get married without a prenup and one of the partners tries to exit with “I didn’t really mean the vows” - well, fuck that guy.

Iirc about half of marriages end in divorce. So why not? It just takes an evening or so, and it gives the couple a chance to talk this stuff through and maybe become even closer. And if they leave it up to the court, one side or the other often feels taken advantage of, creating lasting bitterness and enmity. And that's not good for anybody.

When people talk about lowering your expectations in a relationship, they usually mean like, not being upset that they don't load the dishwasher the same exact way you do or recognizing you also forget to put stuff away. This is not going to end well. He doesn't sound like he respects you and he has no reason to strive for improvement if you don't care if he improves.

sounds like a bunch of excuses. imagine if your request was, please put away the dishes in the dishwasher after eating, and your partner was just like, that's not how i'm wired! i keep forgetting! it's just so awkward to put the dishes in the dishwasher when i'm used to having my partner do it.

When I hear prenup, the first thing I think about is men who want to put it on paper that no matter what, nothing they own will ever become shared property.

Even if she births his children. Even if she gives up her career and years of growth to take care of them (by his request). Maybe even getting more directly involved doing often unpaid and unacknowledged work for a company. A piece of paper that ensures that if you 2 ever do break up, she'll be left high and dry with nothing. Even though she would have helped build you up, enabled you to do things you couldn't have without her.

A prenup isn't a bad thing. But it often gets used by certain people in an exploitative way that is. And it is quite possible that she too has this association.

You gotta talk to her. Like really talk to her. Ensure that she feels secure in the idea here being that things are fair for both sides. Giving her essentially ownership after being together for just a few years might not be reasonable. But if she has been supporting and enabling you in this for 30 years than the situation is completely different.

Which is where the topic of getting her her own lawyer comes up. Offering her this (don't be the one to pick one out for her) might ease the tension a bit since it signals that you aren't trying to get one over her. That you want to be on equal footing.

She thinks its secure because she's been successful at bullying you, which tells her she's free to walk all over you and you won't do anything about it. She knows how much bullshit you'll tolerate.

It seems extremely obvious what you should do if you want to address the relationship problem. He's verbalized it to you many times. "That's just not how I'm wired" is not an excuse. I mean, locating his sense of being desired in his partner initiating sex is just how *he's* wired. 

It seems like he's made a significant effort to meet you where you are for years by not leaving you and finding someone whose wiring allows him to feel desired and loved. The obvious solution here is that you also meet him where he is sometimes and actively make the effort to initiate.

It's not his behaviour that needs to change imo. I mean sure everyone could benefit with staring at less instant-gratification crap on their phones.   
But the basic act of taking an extra second to look at an attractive woman is something men literally have to fight themselves to not do.    
It doesn't make any difference that he's not single, he's still a man with a libido and he notices women he finds hot.   

It doesn't mean anything. It's a monkey looking at the shiny thing. Being loyal in a relationship doesn't mean your whole biology changes. It means you choose to be loyal to your partner, you don't act on outside attractions and crushes and random distractions.

You're saying you're wired to hurt his feelings.

All marriages have a prenup.  It's the law that the government decided is best for you. 

A personal prenup allows YOU to define that arrangement. With this context you can gain insights into your strategy moving forward.

You are using a lot of words to say he isn't worth it to make the effort to initiate. 

Yes, it can be hard and awkward the first few times. And you don't need to do it every time. But once a month won't kill you and it will make him feel loved AND desired. 

And you are wrong for not wanting to compromise. Being wired different doesn't mean ignoring your partner and be unwilling to meet them in the middle.

What would I report to the police? That he charged towards me and almost did? He keeps saying he didn’t actually do it and he never would.

Ok what if he just said "I never found someone I guess..."

"I don't naturally step into the role of initiator"

It can incredibly easy to initiate, don't overcomplicate this in your head like it needs to be a whole production or something, you don't need to put pressure on yourself as a whole thing. Men are usually not that complicated, and if not initiating at all is a hangup make this as easy on yourself as possible. Just take off your clothes in the bedroom and call him in there. Or put on something sexy and call him in there. Or just be down in your underwear as is. It can literally be just that simple! He'll think it's great! You don't even have to say anything other than "hey can you come in here" the message will be pretty obvious when he gets there. Now, if YOU want candles and other stuff then sure go ahead and do whatever you want. But "he wants me to initiate" likely just means he wants you to have the idea. And that's it. So "get naked and call him in" every once in a while is probably going to be sufficient.

I know this won't sound romantic to most, but my wife and I solve this problem early on, neither one of us cared for spontaneity, maybe it was our schedules  Maybe it's our makeup, but we've always planned how many times a week, when, and by the time the moment comes around, we can't race to the bedroom fast enough. Like I said I know for many especially in this age and day of hollywood, ripping clothes off in the middle of the Waldorf Hotel, belief that orgasms have to be simultaneous,etc. That there's so much stress and frustration among couples.

For us we know when it's happening, nobody has to initiate it , feel undesired, or have hurt feelings. And believe me sex in your 70s can be just as thrilling and explosive as when you are in your twenties. Like I said it's not for everybody, but I don't think in our six decades together we ever had an argument over sex. Wish you the best of luck just food for thought

Easy. Don't allow there to be a next time? You have two children you have to protect and who are in need of a mother. Violence is never okay. He knew to get you alone in the room in order to attack you too before he "caught himself."

you say you care, but he's only asking for one thing - for you to initiate. and you seem to be unwilling to take that step forward. doesn't seem like it's that much effort and honestly, i see where he's coming from. he's clearly letting you know what is important to him, and you are clearly not trying to do anything about it except make excuses.

Prenups have other value then just breaking up as well.

There useful to get annoying greedy in-laws to back off. Its not rare that when a couple gets married and one has a successful bussiness or a lot of wealth all of sudden the in-laws feel entiled to it. If they dont get money they often start throwing wrenches at the relashionship, trying to break them up. There hoping ones there broken up and there blood realitive member gets control of half the wealth and then they will more willing to share.

This scenario sounds insane and it is but insine or not it isnt that all uncommon of a situation when a rich person marries someone not as wealthy. Prenups can stop this type of drama because they let the in-laws know a breakup wont help them.

The first year or two of a relationship is learning things about your partner and finding out if they're compatible with you and your lifestyle. And now, six months in, you're learning that she's rude and disrespectful. This is your sign shes not the person for you. She prob won't be a person for anyone with that attitude, but thats not your problem. Stop fighting to keep a bad relationship with someone who doesnt even respect you. Move on.

Not a hard deal breaker but I would have some questions about why.

Because i fully understand her worries and insecurities and I like her mildly unhinged behaviour irl

Felt this. Read the book “come as you are” by Emily Nagoski. It talks about the responsive type desire and will really help you. It helped me!

Oops I missed the 24m. That’s fine, I could recommend an age appropriate friend

Seeing that she never mentioned getting back together, it sounds to me like she's likely trying to ease her guilt by helping you, and trying to foster a friendship in general. You can consider being friends somewhere down the line, once you've completely moved on from the relationship, but I don't think you will have gotten there by August, expecially since it's very clear you still haven't accepted the breakup as final. Therefore I would advise you to thank her for offering to help and cut all contact. It's ironic that she broke up with you to become more independent, while offering to take action that will make *you* dependent on her.

Do people divorce before death do them part ?

Yes.

Ergo, it’s not a vow they take seriously.

This is how I know this.

It’s very simple.

It’s immaterial to the prenup topic.

I’m over fifty, so no, unless he had dated enbies or men . No dating but in my age range is a bit concerning

Bruh. She’s not into you. She just likes that you do or give her things. She’s disrespectful and immature AF. Break up and move on to someone who actually likes you.

You're explaining it plenty well.  You want your husband to feel desired solely on your terms, and can't understand why he's frustrated that his needs aren't being taken into account.

Suggest you take a long look at getting out of your comfort zone and putting more effort in here.

He says he would never hurt me or the baby but at this point, how can I ever believe him or trust him?

Oh like that... Ok yeah I get it. I meant more like what if you met someone your age who hasn't dated yet.

Also, it's simply not unreasonable to believe that community property is, in fact, the best distribution of assets should a marriage fail. This is why this is often the law. 

The mantra that a prenup is just you deciding over the government is also a soft cop out, because it is also saying that you don't think community property is the best option.

If i were you, i would just move on. If a relationship with her happens in the future, it happens, but you'd likely be better off doing your own thing and if someone else comes along, take the chance with them.

Is he an addict forever? Or when he’s clean as he considered an addict?

🙃 It's a pain in the ass

Dump her....you've tried talking to her

It’s a fair point, but I view a lot of that as the “in sickness and in health” part of the vows (though I am not religious, I think a lot of the “rote” vows are still a good benchmark for marriage).

In that case, though, I don’t see what a prenup would do to protect against the Mr. Hyde version of me that standard divorce laws wouldn’t.  Is the idea to execute a pre-nup in that circumstance that says “you get 50% / I get 50%”?  In that case, sure.  But if it’s “I think you might become Satan at some point, so you will not get any piece of the house my mom left me 15 years ago,” then my position would remain the same.

This really resonated with me as it sounded a lot like how my marriage was. (me being your husband in this case). Sadly, ours recently ended with divorce. It takes a big toll on someone who's love language is "sexual connection" I honestly feel there should be a seperate love language for sexual needs all on its own. Sex absolutely doesn't make a marriage, but it can break one sadly. 

I really really commend you though on taking the steps and reaching out just to look for answers on how to help and grow for him! that in its self is a great thing that others do not do. I will give you props for that. 

But in serous talk, please listen to him and understand that sex to may not fill your love bucket but it overflows his, and without it is brutal over time. 

I hope you both have the best outcome in this situation and please do take it very serious for both you and your husband sake and mental health.

Time to leave and file a police report. He threatened you and still put his hands on you. It will not get better, he will hurt you.

No i think it's actually the other way around she's far from ugly but has a golden personality, in person, the first person i've felt a real connection to in ages. I get the vibe she isn't interested still but it's confusing, if she spams me for not messaging for an hour surely that's interest

It does indeed sound like the sexual mismatch goes beyond who initiates. 

This might warrant a deeper conversation around what you each need to feel content with the sexual facet of your relationship, and whether or not you can realistically bridge the gaps in a way that’s sustainable.

Well, it could take years to figure out how to dress / groom yourself/ act in a way that might make people want to date you, another reason not to arbitrarily wait 5 more years.

Personally, I meet people at dance events, karaoke, game events, through my existing friends, or through school or work.

You’re not wrong at all. My close friends have said the same. I’ve felt like he’s selfish for a long time actually but I always felt guilty for feeling that way and talked myself out of it. It’s helped a lot to see it “on paper”.

It’s just protecting assets if divorce should occur. But marriage is traditionally taken as a life long commitment, then divorce should cost.

Should cost *who*?   

If two people decide they don't want to be married anymore, you think they should be penalized?  For causing harm to whom?

I'm 40. I'm not dating any 24 year old period lol

I have. It went fine. I felt a little goofy and out of my element, but I do it. Maybe not super often or as often as he’d like.

The reason I’m struggling with this is that even when I have initiated, it never seems to change the underlying issue. I still end up hearing that I don’t desire him enough or don’t initiate enough.

I think part of the problem is that if it were entirely up to him, we’d probably have sex daily, sometimes more on weekends, whereas I’m just not wired that way. So even when I make an effort, it still feels like we’re measuring things with different yardsticks.

I’m genuinely asking because I don’t know what the solution is. If I had never initiated, I’d understand the criticism. But I have, and the conversation still comes back years later.

I feel like quite a few people would not actually follow through with marriage if they actually bothered to discuss the big stuff ahead of time.

50/50 seems fair in the beginning - until people are tired and feel like they are contributing or giving up more than the other person is.  Life has a way of throwing curveballs, I bet none of the 40% of people who end up divorced went in planning to split up.

He is telling you what he needs. This isn't hard. Put forth the effort. You can do something out of your comfort zone for him.

If you let him, he can.

I often tolerate her behavior, she is like this from starting but i didn't bother me in beginning but it's bothering me like hell now, also she express me first about her feelings it wasn't me to express first in this relationship I hope you are getting my point

I also don’t naturally initiate despite enjoying sex and finding my partner very attractive! I feel very awkward about it. I’ll certainly never initiate as often as he does, but I’ve learned that I don’t need to be seductive like in a movie to get things going. A simple “wanna do it?” is enough. Idk how your partner would react to that, but that’s my advice as someone who feels the same as you lol

Because the other ways you show your affection does not satisfy his desire to be wanted sexually? A hug and a kiss good morning or goodbye is a different kind of intimacy than initiating sex. 

He could be taking the rest for granted. Alternatively he could be appreciative for the rest but still feeling undesired. Feelings aren't always logical.

Do you understand getting aroused is just natural?? Your significant other doesn’t have to be around for you to experience it.

I’m going to be blunt, sex is **extremely** important in a relationship. And if you two are not on the same page about sex there is no reason to stay together because it will cause resentment and your relationship will suffer. I personally think you two need to breakup based on your post. 

Why? 

If you have a lower libido, then you need to try to find solutions and masturbation and porn is a very reasonable option to try. 

So, I don’t think it’s fair to prevent your partner from masturbating or watching porn given your low libido (as long as it doesn’t become an addiction or he spends too much money on it, etc). Reasonable porn use is very common. 

I’ve been together with my husband for 22 years and I am open to trying things he likes. For example, he likes anal sex. It’s not my favorite bedroom activity, but because he enjoys it so much we try for at anal at least once a month, in addition to PIV sex twice a week or more.

Dude! Also practicing in front of the mirror what you want to say! It’s a game changer to literally hear yourself say it out loud so it can reduce the frozen awkwardness that takes over when you’re inching into “now’s a good time.” 
You can tell him “I’ve missed your body all day.”
“I’ve been just waiting for the kids to finally knock out!” And start kissing him. 
Whatever feels right, even just letting him know what you’d like “I’d love to feel your hands on me.” Cue to grab his hands and put them on you. 
Or “I’d love to give you a massage” and lead the way into more from there. So many ways to go about it.

Maybe just start easy and wear sexy lingerie in the evenings? Even a satin slip or something.

If you don't text her for an hour, she gets worried and blows your phone up? That's crazy behavior. Why are you putting up with this?

I don’t think that’s wrong for you, I just can’t imagine viewing a marriage that way (for me, as myself, I mean).  I am glad you and your to-be spouse have complementary viewpoints on that point, though.

It's the end of the relationship. That's something sad,  no doubt. And you being willing to end it makes you strong. Maybe even the stronger one. End it. Begin your next phase in life.  He will be forced to re-examine his own life. Maybe he will be satisfied and continue along his path. Maybe he will change course. Not your responsibility and not your problem. You have cared for him for six years. But now it is time for you to care for yourself.

I'd be angry too. And I couldn't be friends with someone who lied about such serious shit and called it joking. Pregnancy isn't a gd prank. You dont ask someone if they're pregnant, when they're going to have kids, or joke that you're pregnant. That shit hurts people. Not me, but for countless people out there that's their biggest hurt.

Well yes, but people still make wills when much younger than "expected death" age, just in case. While prenups *can* have an emotional component or have implications behind them, they can just be neutral.

It’s not, it’s perfectly fine and all up to you, just might be harder to find people and a more narrow selection which has your current concern applied to a smaller group of people which sounds harder to me but maybe it’s the opposite..

So? Can't expect you they're at all times just to say "okay" and "cool"...

While sex isn’t traditionally a love language it does fall under physical touch and I can see hand holding and hugging not necessarily communicating the same level of desire and ego boost as initiating. 

Imagine him giving you gifts but never telling you he loves you (words of affirmation) or vice versa telling you he loves you but never getting you anything on your birthday or holidays. You may expect him to put the effort in to change that behavior even if it’s not something that comes natural to him because that’s what we do for our life partners. 

There’s no one “at fault” but if it’s a continuous issue as you expressed several times you have two options. Make an effort, set reminders, seek advice on how to be more assertive in the initiation or continue having conflicts. 

You sound like a lovely wife caring wife and I wish you luck on this journey

Effort should be put in on both sides.  How about this…go buy some lingerie or a costume (to each their own) and dress up for him.  I promise that though he might take the lead, it will be a form of you initiating intimacy.  

If he never initiated it with you and you never initiate with him, you would both be sharing a dead bedroom and live like roommates.  It doesn’t have to be an all the time thing, but sometimes won’t hurt you, him to your marriage.

Also, maybe words or affirmation are not his thing…just a thought.

Love is given and received differently. He's being pretty transparent about what he would like - why is it hard for you initiate?

"I'm just not wired that way" is a bullshit excuse and crazy dishonest. Asking your partner to initiate sex once in awhile because it makes you feel desired is a reasonable request. What prevents you from making a move on him? Is it fear? discomfort? awkwardness? shy? Saying you're not wired that way shuts the door on getting to the root cause.

I think you should dive deep into your feelings, probably with a therapist, and really explore the emotional drivers behind why 'you're not wired that way'

that wanting to protect anything going in means I do not fully trust them. 

I don't even fully trust myself, let alone another person, what a spurious argument.  It shouldn't even be a question that your business needs to be protected.

Obv no, What should be my next step ?

Yep, agreed. It protects each of them against each other.

Not sure I follow your first sentence.  I do agree with you that there might be confounding factors—if, for example, there are partners that are requiring some sort of pre-nup, then I might consider it.  My spouse has agreed to be a partner with me; their partners haven’t.

As to the second, I think this is just a fundamental disagreement about what marriage is/should be (which is fine, mind you).  If I built a business before marriage, it’s just as much my wife’s as mine when we get married.  I’d have the same expectation if she built something.  Our lives before each other were a lead-up to our lives together.  There’s nothing I’ve done—even years before I met her—that isn’t now hers.  If a pre-nup is suggesting otherwise, then yes, I would refuse to sign it.  And, moreover, it would seem to suggest a fundamental mismatch in our values that would have me rethink the relationship.

I'm not even sure if anyone would want to date me. I have no clue of I look good or bad. But where do I meet these people who are willing to talk to me, meet me, talk to me about their thoughts on relationships, sex, etc. ? This is a real question. I'm not trying to act stupid. Maybe for a lot of folks, it's an obvious answer but I swear I have no clue how to do anything you just said.

Let me guess you have a reactive libido and your submissive in bed. I’ve heard this as the dreaded bad sex combo. Basically your partner takes absolutely no responsibility for initiating sex and then when you do finally get them to have sex they’re not gonna do a goddamn thing other than lay there and allow themselves to be pleasured. While the active partner basically feels like they are masturbating with the submissive partner’s body.

A lot of people will put up with this for a long time because they love their partner and they’re still having sex but overtime the resentment really starts to build because it just seems like the other person couldn’t give a shit and they want all the responsibility dumped on the active person.

This is just one of those things where one person has become accustomed to becoming selfish and never caring about how the other person feels because they’re so wrapped up in their own head.

I may not have explained it well. It’s not that I’ve never initiated or refuse to. I have. The issue is that it doesn’t come naturally to me and probably never has. My husband would happily have sex far more often than I would ideally think about it, so even when I do initiate, it’s rarely going to be as often as he’d prefer. I’m genuinely trying to understand the disconnect because I love him very much and don’t want him feeling undesired. I’m just struggling to understand why all the other ways I show love and attraction seem to carry so much less weight than initiation does.

Let me guess you have a reactive libido and your submissive in bed. I’ve heard this as the dreaded bad sex combo. Basically your partner takes absolutely no responsibility for initiating sex and then when you do finally get them to have sex they’re not gonna do a goddamn thing other than lay there and allow themselves to be pleasured. While the active partner basically feels like they are masturbating with the submissive partner’s body.

A lot of people will put up with this for a long time because they love their partner and they’re still having sex but overtime the resentment really starts to build because it just seems like the other person couldn’t give a shit and they want all the responsibility dumped on the active person.

This is just one of those things where one person has become accustomed to becoming selfish and never caring about how the other person feels because they’re so wrapped up in their own head.

I mean... anyone would at some point feel that if only they initiate sex that it feels one sided. 

My ex gf never initiated but loved having sex. She practically always never said no when I asked or initiated. 

At one time it got to me and I made a remark about it. She really understood how good it can make you feel when you partner initiates because you feel desired, wanted, attractive and all the good feelings.

I didn't need it to be 50/50 initiating. Just from time to time. It was difficult for her because she also had her reasons being wired more like reactive desire instead of my spontaneous desire. 

But she made an effort for me when we were together and when she felt like it she just said things like "I want you" or "I want you to make love to me"

That was enough for me. Just once a month or so but damn it felt good
I didn't force her. She was ok with it and actually loved my ecstatic reaction to it. So we made it work.

She must be much more attractive than you and feels like you are the lucky one . Evidenced also by your tolerating this and posting on Reddit. You are more excited about her than she is about you

So basically, even after over a decade, you cant bring yourself to take the initiative to start sex? Im surprised that your husband took this long to think you arent sexually interested in him. 

Your husband, like the vast majority of people, wants to be wanted. He wants his partner, you, to have moments where you have to have him. But instead, he realized if he never went after you, nothing would happen. Your interest isnt strong enough to move you to actually do something.

Think about how you would feel if you thought your husband didnt feel a strong enough attraction to actually initiate sex with you. That he was ok with having it, it was nice, but he never felt like he had to have you.

I get what you're saying but sounds like he would appreciate the effort to initiate so he also feels desirable and it's not always him doing the initiating. Sometimes we do things that we might not naturally do, so not in our nature, to strengthen our marriage. It's just stepping outside our comfort zone and trying new things

Buuut she's interested in person, i don't want to jeopardise a future where we'll barely be texting 😆

You've been experiencing issues w this man for months. Why are you shell shocked ? You have refused to see what's in front of you, you are in denial. 

You are giving poor excuses " I feel bad if I just leave". Lady . Will you feel better the next time he spends your money ? Or when he actually slaps you ? Or your baby ?

I think this is the right answer. He’s communicating his needs to you, do what you can to meet them, even if it feels a little awkward at first. Like a muscle, as you exercise it, it will become stronger.

Definitely something you need to work on if it’s important to your husband, which it seems like it is. Have you ever actually tried it after it’s been brought up? If not, I suggest you at least try it first and put in the effort because it seems like it’s something that’s very important to him and will make him feel loved. After a while, maybe it will come more naturally to you when you get used to the feeling.

Doesn’t mean you have to switch to initiating every time, but I would say at this point, if you don’t feel any fear or shame towards it, at least give it a try and an honest effort.

If you’re still having issues for whatever reason, I agree you should seek therapy on it, it could help you work through any complex feelings about it

Requesting a prenup is definitely a sign of insecurities. Insecurity isn’t always irrational-in fact they can be very rational. That’s why I challenged OP to sit and talk and listen and learn to make compromises with the woman he’s thinking of marrying. 

It’s weird that this is someone he’s thinking about marrying and he’s so quick to dismiss her fears. He’s turned this into an all about me thing. Her insecurities about the prenup is in his mind all about her and his seeing this as a red flag makes it all about him. Marriage isn’t all about anyone.

I mean 30 isn't too old to get married... So why not date normally in the 30s and then marry in the 40s.

I suggest therapy to explore this. I know it can be hard to find the right one, but if you genuinely want to change this then it can help. 

It may be just how you're wired, but you may also be able to change this. It may feel unnatural but maybe you just have to act. I don't say this trying to put pressure on you because it's your choice and I think it kind of falls under consent, don't do what you really don't want to do

No the situation is creepy. And like I said if my husband was in this situation I would be worried, and uncomfortable. Because it sounds like a cult. It’s a very strange community he found himself in no wonder his wife has issues with it

Wtf. A marriage without a prenup is pure financial insanity.

Make sure your partner understands that you think of a prenup in pragmatic practical terms, and it has nothing to do with trust.

On the contrary. Without a prenup, everything you build together from then on is built on trust. You're putting more weight on the trust of your future.

So basically he wants to have his cake and eat it.

He wants you to remain available to him with none of the responsibility on his part. Notice how he was suddenly in a place to be in a relationship again when you said you would need some space if you broke up? Why didn't he consider getting treatment in the first place, if he wants you in his life so bad?

Mental health issues or no, he sounds pretty selfish.

Happy 20th anniversary ! At what age did you guys meet each other ?

I mean a dam blocking a river keeps you dry, and so does deodorant. 

Explain how the metaphor works. Cause a seatbelt will keep you safe if your car hits/gets hit by another object. 

A prenup isn’t stopping external factors. It’s just protecting assets if divorce should occur. But marriage is traditionally taken as a life long commitment, then divorce should cost. It isn’t planned for, cause it’s a life long commitment.

She basically wanted to check-in to talk see if I am moving out there. I told her I would take the summer to think about it. She offered to help me with finding somewhere to live and put me in contact with friends she has that work in my industry.

I mean, I understand what you or I would say about this relationship, but I’d like to hear from OP’s partner— it’s not everyday I run into a guy dating someone 20 years younger.

You say you do enjoy sex, but you didn't notice when he stopped initiating just to see how long it would take you to notice and you went (seemingly) a long time without having sex?

  
That just doesn't make sense to me.

Reframe it as how it would benefit her as well. An agreed upon spousal support, equal division of assets, etc. It’s for her protection just as much as it is yours. Encourage her to lawyer up for negotiations.

Sorry. You knew he wanted those glasses for a long time and you made him feel bad about it. There’s no way around the truth. 

“He took it as a joke”  

It almost sounds as if you said you didn’t like it but didn’t soften the blow by saying you were joking. Even if you did, there’s nothing funny about saying something that’s not nice.

Just some things to think about is, how much support will they give you for you to run your business- such as home keeping. Will they give up there job to raise kids. Will they make sacrifices to be home when you can not. If these things aren't accounted for then from the start the marriage won't be fair.

I like to think of a prenup as a loving way to decide things incase you don't love each other anymore. Don't think of it as what she walks away with and more how can I care for the person I love.

That's honestly really unfair to him. Even if you don't think of it organically, you can plan to do it. To make him feel loved the way that works for him. 

Just saying that's not how I'm wired is a cop out.

Then she doesn't care about your feelings. 

Do you want to be with someone like that? This early in a relationship is usually the honeymoon phase...

Feeling desired is so important. Maybe if you dressed up to make you feel confident and in that mindset to wanna guide him to the bedroom. I hardly initiate but when I do, it helps me to be in that mindset by preparing the setting (candles, dim lighting, a nice meal prepared ahead of time, sexy outfit) and I actively decide when I will initiate (soon as he comes in from work, when he gets out of the shower, when he finishes his dinner). Having these things already decided, set up, and prepared massively helps with being the initiator. 

He can do it spur of the moment, I need the prep to set up my mindset and body for it. And to hype myself up too. A good sexy outfit goes a long way for me.

What about this? 

The way I view a prenup is protection for who both partners may become. The brain is a weird ball of fat and chemicals. A brain injury, a sickness, a developing mental illness, drug use, could possibly turn the other person into someone they never were. And that might be fine, unless they become mean, hateful, and/or abusive. I would want any partner of mine to be protected from a theoretical version of me that is hurting them, no matter the reason. 

I'm just curious what your thoughts are about that perspective.

I married someone who had never had a girlfriend before me, and we'll be celebrating our 20th wedding anniversary in October!

Get her an attorney in addition to your attorney that way you both have legal counsel.  A prenup is deciding how assets will be decided prior to the marriage when there aren't emotions and anger involved.  Would she rather decide it now when everyone has a level head or during a divorce when everyone is pissed at each other? If she won't sign it then that is a huge red flag.

My husband and i don't gave a prenup (got married young and quickly, weren't thinking hard about it 😅) 

But while we have an amazing marriage and have absolutely nothing wrong, ocassionally on a long roadtrip while chatting we talk about what would happen if one of us died or we got divorced. We already decided who gets to keep which cat (since they're not pair bonded) and agreed to split our assets as equally/equitably as possible 

I can see how bringing it up while.planning marriage can come off as threatening, but I think its a better sign if you're able to talk about hypotheticals and not worry about them actually happening. I stress out WAY more about waking up one day as a 5 year old and having all my adult memories before moving to the state my husband lives in 🤣🤣

It sounds like he equates being sexually desired to you initiating sex.  If you have a good marriage outside of that, it sounds like he's happy with everything else.  Saying "I don't feel loved" and "I don't feel desired" are two very different things.  

If someone never asked you to hang out, but said yes every time you asked... you two generally had a good time when you did hang out and they seemed happy... at some point you're likely to ask yourself "does this person really want to hang out with me, or are they just doing it to please me? Why am I always the one initiating our hang outs?  Why don't they ever ask me?" 

It's the same thing here.  He's questioning your interest because you never 'ask to hang out'.  In my experience, guys typically like that "I need you right now" move every now and again and he's telling you hes missing that.

Just gotta tell her if she wants you to be within arms reach she needs to participate in the conversation

She thinks your relationship is secure bc you're probably tolerating her behavior (you may or may not realize it)

Honestly, if he's asked you to initiate and you know it's important, why not plan to do it? Why not put in some effort to make him feel wanted? 

All you have to do is plan it, put a reminder on your phone or something. Take a bath to get in the mood or have a glass of wine and do it.  

Honestly, if he's asking for something and you're unwilling to put in a tiny amount of effort it takes to initiate, that's pretty crappy.

Sounds like she sucks bro

Honestly, it sounds like he's conflating lust for love. They're very different. You love him, you just don't lust after him. The thing is, that's also understandable because some people simply don't think in those directions.

The other conversation to have, though, is what sort of balance he's looking for. How often is he looking for you to initiate? And how does he envision you initiating? Is it flirting throughout the day with positive conversation about plans for later or is it you grabbing his hand and saying "You. Me. Bedroom. Now."?

For now, a big part of this is communication. You two simply aren't fully understanding how the other is thinking because neither of you are mind readers and neither has clarified how you're framing the issue in your head. You'll need to have that conversation before you can make any meaningful progress.

Have you *ever* initiated sex?

If so, how did it go?

To be blunt: Do you not desire sex, especially if you go without for awhile? Because it sounds like you're not especially sexually driven. Thats perfectly normal, plenty of people arent. But, your husband, like many people, is a sexual person and he wants to be wanted. 

As your partner, your husband is getting the message that you arent really sexually attracted to him, at least not to the point that you actually want to do something about it. Thats a tough message to get from your partner

I mean go out, meet people, talk to them, ask them their thoughts on relationships, ask their thoughts on sex, tell them "im not ready for a full relationship but I like seeing you"

The best advice I can give you next time she hangs up like that is to block her and move on with your life.  If you run into her and she asks why.  Tell her you assumed it was over after being repeatedly hung up on and disrespected.  If she says that wasn’t her intention.  Then say what’s done is done, and hopefully you will treat your next boyfriend better.  Wish her the best and walk away.

I mean, I've gone through the same thing with my wife. Whether it's due to her BC or anti-depressants, she rarely thinks to initiate. 

But, after a few heart felt conversations, she's put in the effort to initiate. Is it as frequently as I would hope for? No, but it's effort and I am grateful that's she's trying. 

Reading what you wrote, doesn't even seem like you want to try. The post reads "I do all these other things, why isn't that enough?"

Lemme tell you, as a man, feeling undesired sexually supremely sucks, no matter how many other ways you may or may not show affection. 

The ball is in your court right now. Y'all have had the conversation plenty, now is the time for action.

He also has a strong opinion. Does that make him equally insecure ?

I’m aware I can be quite snappy and bossy.

Yea maybe work on that

What a ridiculous and highly presumpious comment.

you two met two months ago, and youre already having pretty big issues....... bail.

How old are you now ? So now at your current age you wouldn't?

That’s actually a really good question, and I think it’s more the latter.

The thought absolutely occurs to me. There have been plenty of times where I’ve thought, “The kids are asleep, now would be a good time,” or “I should initiate tonight.”

The problem isn’t that it never crosses my mind. It’s that when it comes time to actually do it, it feels awkward and unnatural to me.

The best way I can explain it is that I’ve always been more comfortable being pursued than being the pursuer. Even before my husband, I was never really the one making the first move. Men always approached me, asked me out, initiated, etc. Somewhere along the way I think I internalized that dynamic and it just became what felt normal to me.

It’s not fear, shame, or lack of attraction. I’m very attracted to my husband, affectionate with him, and enjoy sex. I just don’t naturally step into the role of initiator.

Maybe that’s something I need to work on, but it’s honestly never felt natural to me with anyone, which is why I’m struggling to figure out if this is something I can change or if it’s just how I’m wired.

Your partner is supporting your business by supporting you, just keep that in mind from their perspective.

I try to talk to her but she seems very chill about my concerns i don't know why I think it's cuz she becomes very comfortable in the relationship and thinks the relation is secure i don't know just a random thought

What is this check in for really? Has she made that clear? Is she considering getting back together?

No, this is not normal. It’s disrespectful. At just 4 months, you shouldn’t be feeling this way. 
1) Talk to her about your feelings. If she deflects, gets defensive, or gets argumentative, you’ll know what to do. 
2) If she handles the convo well and changes her ways, perfect!
3) If she handles the convo well, changes her ways temporarily, then go ahead and cut your losses.

Make it clear that she can also have stipulations in the prenup. It’s not a one-way contract and is simply the business portion of marriage. A prenup highlights why marriage is so much more than a “piece of paper”.

That's immature and kind of a weird thing to do. I'd lean toward walking away from someone who tells a lie like that for their amusement.

That's exactly the point, though, isn't it? Especially where a business is concerned, whether or not it predates the relationship. Even more so if OP relies on business partners or long term employees who have any financial interest in the company. The spouse was not a part of that. I wouldn't expect anymore from my wife's etsy shop, for example.

I would say he sounds horrible and you should rid yourself of him even without this detail, but you’ve only been together TWO MONTHS?

You definitely need to stop trying to engage him further, and count yourself lucky that he’s making it so easy for you, but I’m also sad/worried for you that you became so emotionally invested in him after such a short period of time, in which he’d already shown you that he can be really critical and mean.

Why are you with someone so rude and disrespectful? Talk to her sincerely about how her behavior affects you and your relationship. If she can't change, then assess yourself if you can stay with her attitude for months, and even years.

I'd break up.

She's either asexual - in which case you are incompatible - or she doesn't want to have sex with YOU.  Because I guarantee she'd have sex with someone she is sexually attracted to.

No sexual intimacy means you are just friends.

Because he was driving???????

The difference I think is you know you will die

How old are you? You can’t have a conversation and ask her out? Really?

You do not mention what you want in the prenup but if it's "anything related to the business stays mine in perpetuity" that does not seem like a fair deal. 

OP, not sure if you are familiar with community property laws or not in your state but I would review them to make super sure a prenup is necessary before blowing things up.

At only four months? I don't think it matters what her deal is, you should not be this frustrated after less than half a year. It will not get better.

What exactly do you mean by experiences ? I don't think I'm ready for full relationships yet. I'm also really not into casual relationships. I do have friends that are girls. Just not a girlfriend.

I think the only issue that may arise is that by age 30, if you’re dating woman 25-30, they may be looking more for someone to marry in the next couple years. 

If you haven’t had a dating life, would *you* be willing to date someone from let’s say 30-32 and then marry this person, who would essentially be only the second d person you have ever dated? Or would you be more inclined to start dating around for the experience of it?  

I think at 24, you don’t have to forgo dating to grow your career- the two aren’t mutually exclusive. Dating is finding out what kind of person interests you. Do you do better with an introvert, or maybe a slight extrovert can help you have experiences you otherwise wouldn’t. Do you more enjoy a nerdy girl or a more trendy one? One who is very into festivals or picnics? That is what dating does, it gives you a clearer idea of the kind of personality that you think compliments yours the best, and who you can see yourself growing old with.

It protects you against your partner, not the car crash.

It protects both parties by defining their assets/debts/expectations in advance

You made a stupid promise when you were 17 or 18 years old and horny or just feeling very enthused about the relationship. You don't have to goof up the rest of your life because of that. You were young and pretty inexperienced in relationships then (and still are now, in fact), and the fact is that there's a tendency to feel very intense feelings in the early days of a relationship. We typically call it the "honeymoon phase" even if the folks aren't married.

Bottom line here, it's \*typical\* for us to fall in love with people that we aren't totally compatible with. Like maybe we find them physically attractive, maybe their personality is attractive to us, etc., and so we think, "Holy crap, this is my person!" And then time goes on, relationship develops, and it turns out that this is \*not\* the person we are going to be spending decades with. Or rather, we \*could\* spend 5 or 10 or 15 years with this person - but we'd get progressively more miserable and bitter until we finally get out of the relationship, because they were never really a good match.

So I understand that you "can't stand the idea of losing him" - but it will save you a lot of pain in the long run if you develop the ability to take a step back and reconsider things. You're gonna fall in love with people - but you have to be able to assess whether they're actually right for you or not - and if they're not, then being able to walk away can help you immensely.

Women are so offended by prenups but initiate 70% of all divorces and 90% if they graduated from college. It’s the right call to protect your business.

She sounds like a disrespectful girlfriend.

It protects you from damage.

It makes me wonder. 

Does that work both ways ? 

Not only partner to partner, but sources of income to sources of income ?

I’ve built my career from the ground up. I studied and made the sacrifices. I’ve worked the hours. I started working before I met them.

By the same token, why would my partner be afforded any sort of compensation from the income that I derive from my career, and the wealth it has / will build.

I don’t see the difference between a business and a professional career that requires just as much commitment, and which on average pays better (average small business income is nothing special).

Is it that it doesn't occur to you to initiate it, or you do think of it but you are uncomfortable doing it?

If the former, silly suggestion: set a reminder on your phone? 

If the latter, therapy to explore why you feel uncomfortable?

The best advice I ever heard about a prenup was basically: you have a prenup, the state you reside in has already written it, and a judge will finalize it. Would you rather agree to what the state says or make up your own rules just in case?

Nagging and controlling spouses will likely always be dissatisfied. Enjoy the game.

I'm sorry that you're getting bullied by the comments. I too was in a relationship with an asexuel guy for a couple of years. You love them so much and you live with hope that something is going to change. But for me it became damaging to my self-esteem and almost broke me. I understand that you obviously love him but 8 yrs is way too long to be in a sex less relationship. Especially since you seem to want physical love. Get out ASAP and get therapy. Good luck

Former business owner here.  Also divorced before I built a business, built one, then 20 years later got remarried.

I nearly married a few women along the way and they all had this reaction to a prenup and financial planning.  

I walked away.  

Best decision ever.    

Met my wife, she worked with me pragmatically to solve and discuss.   Got her own lawyer.  Brought our financial planners together to discuss.   White boarded nightmare scenarios and what philosophical guidelines we’d want when dealing with the unforeseen (future kids, aging parents, death/dismemberment etc

If you are a logical, pragmatic and fair person then you should also be paired with another logical, pragmatic and fair person.   Anyone claiming emotional reaction etc to even discussing a prenup to the point “then I don’t know about marriage!” is literally going to be a boat anchor for your life, so do yourself a favour and avoid it.

I’d just forget it happened and move on.

And a prenup is like a seatbelt in what way?

Lower my expectations to be with someone who can’t put basic effort into me? No thanks.

And you know this how? 

I mean, it’s a public ceremony, with legal documents. “I didn’t really mean it” isn’t a viable argument when someone is trying to get out of a contract. 

I get your point, I’m not trying to attack you. 

If one of the two people in a marriage respect those vows and the other “didn’t mean it”, then the act of dissolving said marriage should come as painful for the one who “didn’t mean it”. 

Asking for a prenup is a big sign the asking party doesn’t value marriage vows as they are traditionally stated.

You’re clearly insecure about it (e.g. describing the girl talking about her past relationships as ‘boasting’). Then it can definitely be a dealbreaker. If you don’t care, she won’t care - if anything, having been single can be a flex. Just tell about the nice things you did instead.

He's entertaining it though, otherwise hed tell those friends of his " Hey stop sending that stuff to me I'm in a committed relationship" or straight up not be friends with them. Be careful it's common for men to cheat after women have a baby with them, as fucked up as it is. I hope he stops though, good luck and congratulations on your new baby!

Seconding this advice

If he’s been like this since the beginning of your relationship, he’s not going to change.

7 years together did everything she wanted, even had $20,000 worth of dental work done so she wouldn't have to deal with it looking bad, always fix her car and take care of the pets while she's out, 3 years ago she just suddenly started pushing me away, no intimacy or even common affection for that matter. Still try to make her feel good, kisses hugs, still fix her car and do everything i can yet she still pushes me away, im getting close to being done, broken inside from continuing to try for us. She takes hours to get hone from work and any time i have a day off there's always an excuse as to why she's not home. She still tries to lead me on saying that she loves me and i need mental help but 3 years without even coming to me and giving me hugs or anything im not even worried about sex anymore but Guess im just not worth it.

As someone who has been divorced, I would call their reaction a dealbreaker.  Just from a fairness standpoint, what's yours is yours and she is not entitled to anything.....yet.  I used to ask potential partners how they would divide lotto winnings as a test.  She failed the test and I wouldn't proceed unfortunately.  She showed you who she was, don't disregard this.  She views you as her provider already.

Honestly, from my experience, the girls that don’t like this are direct products of the way guys work. From talking to girl friends and my own experience I have found that the older you get the harder this hits for women, guys with less experience are not.. unattractive because of “skill” (sexually I mean, emotionally maybe yeah, but it depends), they are more likely to leave and not want to marry their first girlfriend which actually ties into the emotional lack of experience issue if it does come up, no girl wants to spend the relationship teaching you the skills to communicate or empathize and be a good partner just for you to take those skills to another girl after the struggle is over.

Yeah the reason he called and called was control. The reason he freaks out and leaves in arguments is also control. 

If you're too busy trying to make him not mad at you, then you're not going to try and correct his behaviour. He was worried you left and he really fucked up, and he should be, because he did really fuck up. 

He's not a partner. He's not there for you. He's using every tactic in the book to make this feel like your fault and keep making you feel like shit. 

If your family hates him now because of the truth of his behaviour, what does that tell you? Why are you so worried about telling people the truth? Why is he not more embarrassed about acting this way than you are about telling people how he acts?

That may not be sexy or romantic.. but it's realistic. There IS a chance that any couple, no matter how in love they are might not work out long term. 

Others have used the seatbelt analogy - and it's a good one. Does me wearing a seatbelt say "there's a chance I could be in a car accident today?" Well, yes. Does that mean I am planning to have one, or want to have one? Of course not. But driving is inherently risky, so we take some precautions.

I think you should try to have experiences -- not necessarily heartbreaking romantic ones, but don't be a shut-in. The only guy I know that was single until he was 30 ended up being really weird and had twisted, stereotypical ideas about what women were like.

The hurt will fade. It'll take some time, and it'll have some false starts. My suggestion is to reach out to your people - be they friends, relatives, online folk, whatever you've got - and get some support going. Make a few changes - getting rid of the pillow that they used during sleepovers, any clothing of theirs that they've abandoned, and all photos - then block them on all social media, because it's done for good.

Spend some time visiting a pet store and playing with fuzzy animals for a few minutes; buy a house plant; read some books; watch a new TV series or movie franchise; people watch in a public space while having a meal; look at pictures of things that you liked long before you knew them. 

Don't keep them in your head and your heart longer than it takes to heal. Soon enough, you'll have something new and it'll hurt less. He'll turn into a joke and you'll laugh. 

You get a future and he gets nothing of you.

You won.

Be healthy and safe.

I think you need to clarify what you’re asking from him - because to me, it sounds like you are asking him to hand you the reins of his sexuality, while you retain total control over your own.

Is that your expectation? That you alone will have the power to decide when and how he is permitted to express sexual desires, in return for your continued use of birth control?

You don’t know him and you don’t love him. Theres something deeper going on. You should start looking for free or sliding scale therapist in your area to see if there’s any options.

They don’t really mean it.

For many people (most ?), those are empty words tacked at the end for ceremony and tradition.

I wonder how many people saying it's a red flag are guys?  Im guessing 95%.

OP

The things he makes you do, is it sexual?

You can leave a relationship at anytime for any reason.

If you force yourself to stay you are holding yourself hostage to make someone else happy whilst you are hurting inside 

He’s not your husband, you are both very young.

If you break up his family will expect him to move on to another girl - why? Because life continues on

You lived 13 years with him. You will continue to be fine.
DO NOT CARE WHAT PEOPLE THINK OR SAY! 

It’s your life. Finish school and go off to do what you want

Good on you for having self respect

Honestly thank you for your input on this. I appreciate your honesty and real talk into it. I wouldn't want this relationship to end and I definitely want to make it work. Having that in mind, I really do have a lot of things to reflect and reconsider. I'll take this as an opportunity to broaden my perspective ><

Also he said at some point “you like community I like intimacy”.. because of my affinity for group settings and his preference to be alone. But the truth is I DO like intimacy but emotional and intellectual! Like a genuine connection of souls. Not just “mwah I love you” over and over again.

1 - you can say “sex” and “masturbation” on here. 

2 - you should be able to do what you like with your own body, and so should be. 

3 - being on the pill can really kill your libido, which might explain your lack of interest. 

4 - is oral kinky? Sounds pretty standard..

Right now you aren't on the same pages regarding finances.

It's not about whether a prenup is 'right or wrong'. You can't get married until you are on the same page about money.

And? She asked for advice, I'm giving advice for the problem she named. She didn't ask how to fix her boyfriends attitude or actions. She asked about herself.

Me and my partner are having this conversation now. We don’t plan to divorce obviously, but if we did, neither of us wants everything to be split 50/50, we just want what we came to the relationship with. For example, I own a home that I’ll probably rent out when we buy a home together. I want to maintain ownership of that.  He has a lot of money he’s saved up/invested over the years that he wants to maintain if anything ever happens. This will be a lot cleaner for us than trying to split all of that up. Granted, we also need to decide what would happen to assets acquired during marriage. Those would prob be split 50/50. 

Hopefully we never have to worry about that, but no one thinks they’re going to get divorced, yet so many people do.

Prenup doesn’t protect you against an accident. It’s not an insurance policy that will pay for the car back if it gets wrecked.

It protects you against your partner, not the car crash.

This sounds harsh so I’m sorry, but honestly you don’t sound mature enough to be engaging in sexual activity. You can’t even write the word sex. I think you need to think about that and how uncomfortable you obviously are when it comes to anything sexual. Try and figure that out and go from there.

But there is always that chance whether you formally acknowledge it or not. As no one is psychic and you have no idea of what will happen in the future, you can’t say with certainty that it will and there is always a chance it won’t work out.

Prenups are the responsible way to start a marriage when significant assets are involved, and sometimes even when they’re not.  It’s a tough conversation, but important.

Yeah, I worded that wrong!

you have a 50/50 chance of the marriage failing and divorces get ugly fast. if they are unwilling to let you protect yourself I would say they're already thinking about after. tell them you're willing to discuss a fair distribution but if they refuse then let them go. losing a relationship now versus your business later isn't really a choice. don't let potentially passing emotions burn you down the road.

But some people view planning for divorce as already accepting the relationship won't last. It's an emotional response but unfortunately a lot of people are gonna let that side win over logic.

I wish this was the top answer instead of the manosphere bullsh*t OP is agreeing to in other threads… :(

Also, shes been his partner--and then fiancee--for more than half the time OP has had this business. OP's request for a prenuptial devalues her support, sacrifices, and labor to date at zero.

Zero.

Thank you so much for this!

What useful info do you get from asking this?   
There are gonna varying opinions. For some women it's important that a guy has experience, some women don't care, for some it will depend on how much they're into you otherwise.   
No matter who you are you are never going to avoid all possible rejection by dating. There's always something about you that will be a turnoff for some people, but you don't have to appeal to everyone.

I think the real question is why you stay with him after he treats you this way? If a person asked me if they should cheat on me so I understand they’re dine w me, that’d be the last time I ever talk to them.

Absolutely. And most commonly, this is just assumed. No protection for the women who give up their bodies or their lives. If he finds someone younger and hotter ten or twenty years down the line, the self sacrificing wifey is supposed to just melt back into the shadows while he strides forward with his prized company and ’his’ money.

When I was your age, sure why not.

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Genuinely not, im literally new to relationships so i just need a little bit of info how relationships work

I get why it offends people, but I just think people need to get out of their feelings for a moment. When you get car insurance does that mean you're planning to crash your car? Does home insurance mean you gonna burn your house down tomorrow? No, it's just an understanding that shit can happen. 

With the marriage statistics as they are, it's reasonable to want some insurance. The crazy thing to me is the same people against prenups are the same people who have no issues with a woman hiding money just in case shit goes bad. At least the prenup is up front and honest. Hiding money without discussing it with your partner will always be a slimy move in my books (unless you are being abused or something).

Also, you ever notice that it's always the people with everything to gain from a divorce that don't want prenups? I ain't ever seen a rich (wo)man argue to NOT have a prenup.

Agreed with everyone above, this whole dynamic is deeply unhealthy at best and abusive at worst. 

But you should 1000% look into having the cysts removed. NOT so you can have sex but because it will change your life more than you can imagine not to just have those random debilitating stabbing pains ruining your life

“If she trusted you she wouldn’t question you”.

“Life is long, things happen”.

Why are you setting different standards for her than you do him? Can’t she argue the exact same? That if he trusted her, he wouldn’t question her?

This is my first time I this channel so not sure if it's appropriate or I need to filter it out. So I did just to be safe

If my husband wasn't satisfying me sexually and wouldn't let me masturbate, I would find that irrational and controlling and not be ok with it.  

Sexual compatibility is so important and you two do not have it. 

I could not be with someone vanilla or with a low sex drive, and I certainly wouldn't allow anyone to police my private masturbation. 

I don't think you two are gonna work out.

I think it is weird and controlling to forbid masturbation or porn use in relationships. If it is a barrier for you, fair enough, but if you don't match your partner's libido but also insist that the only source of sexual gratification they can seek is with you, then you are setting your relationship up for failure, and likely in a spectacular way. Either break up tonfind someone more compatible, or learn to have fewer hang-ups about sex (oral sex is kinky in your universe? I get that you are sheltered and also very young, but you may need to re-think how tightly wound your sexual prudery scale is, because it doesn't match most sexually active adults I know.)

I don’t understand 90% of what you wrote. But, if he’s horny and you don’t want to have more sex… let the boy crank down.  It’s win win.

Something is off here. But enjoy the sex. Be safe and be cautious though. Don't let your emotions get caught up on the sex part. That's hard to do. And if you can't or don't feel comfortable, take a step back that ok. Don't let her control the situation. If she really is just into you, she will understand and slow it down.  

But she could just like the fact your young and inexperienced. And it turns her on. I guess you just need to set the expectations. I would watch your back with her though. She might be wanting a baby/child support for the next 20 yrs! She sees you're in university and thinks future potential bank!!

My partner can do whatever she wants with her own body. That's basically none of my business.

It's a boundary of hers to not have a prenup, which is allowed to be her stance, it just unfortunately comes with the ultimatum of ending the relationship because you're incompatible.

And OP is gonna have to start bringing up a prenup about their business earlier in a relationship.

I would not consider marrying anyone without a prenup. If they're so insecure that they won't even consider one, that would be a deal breaker for me. It's completely naive to assume that nothing will ever go wrong and that there's no possibility of divorce.

I get that vibe somethings form her, but it’s some of the other stuff that makes me think she’s just playing with me

I suspect this is someone who's 18 and a bit naive being impressed by literally any job that isn't like retail or warehouse or something. I was in a similar situation to OP when I was 18 (she wasn't crazy though), was dating this 22 year old who I was extremely impressed by for what was really an entry level new grad job that paid like 30k. Totally respectable, no shade, but it was not as glamorous or impressive as it seemed to me as a college freshman working at Del Taco.

I have faith that I won't wreck my car, but I still put on my seatbelt before I start the drive.

Best response here, honestly. A lot of people are saying "if she can't agree with you on this, it's a mismatch", but I think a third party could help both partners see the middle ground.

"reasonable"

I do not think that word means what you think it means, and just by labeling something "reasonable" does not make it so.

Sounds like you've always be able to convince her to choose the path you want. 

She's now saying, "What the fuck is wrong with you?" And if she's been a big part of your life as this business has grown, or the business isn't worth like >$250K, she's probably right.

Whenever anyone has a “strong opinion” it means that they feel insecure. Insecurities are natural they happen any time anyone feels threatened, rejected or disrespected. As her potential partner you have a responsibility to help her feel secure. This doesn’t mean automatically disregarding the prenuptial agreement. This means actively working through what is causing her to feel insecure.  

Often people feel that anyone who is insecure is flawed (ie red flag) when the fact is we are designed to have big feelings when ever we feel threatened, disrespected or rejected. We are designed this way because for most of human history threats, disrespect and rejection equals death. Our bodies still treat these things as life or death. Unless we have experienced similar situations and have successfully managed them we will feel a life or death threat. 

Rather than thinking OMG the woman I am thinking of proposing to is refusing a prenup because she doesn’t value my security maybe you should use some empathy: I love this woman enough to propose spending the rest of my life with her and right now she feels threatened, I need to listen to her, do things so that she doesn’t feel threatened, disrespected or rejected — shoot I should listen to her and find out what exactly she is feeling and talk with her and help her feel safe.

This has to be rage bait

Yes, passive-aggression and sarcasm are certainly the way you want to start a marriage.

Why are you unable to write “sex” and “masturbation”?

The above submission has been **removed** for the following reason:

* It is an update post without a link to the previous or original post.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the  wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I'm trying to put myself in their shoes right now. For the general population, a prenup is seen as a tool to help the rich partner stay rich in case of a divorce. It's seen as a way to weed out the gold diggers. So maybe that's what they think is going on. They think you think of them as a gold digger.

OR

When one of the partners has a business, they usually put a lot of time and effort in it. The other partner has to compensate with their own time. If you plan on having kids, they might have to bear more of the family mental load, they might have to go to parent-teacher meetings or other appointments alone, they might have to put their own lives on pause for taking care of the kids and home because you will be busy with your business. It's an non money debt. Also, I don't know if you plan on being pregnant or adopting but being pregnant is literally a donation to your future family. It's a lot of discomfort, risks and time given to build up the family that the other parent will never be able to repay. Your body changes forever. So, just considering these 2 debts, id think maybe that's why your partner wants to share everything of your relationship goes bad: because, of you want it or not, they will be impacted by your business. A business is a lifestyle and your partner agreed to changing their lives to let you keep your lifestyle at one condition : their sacrifice will be repaid if it all goes wrong. But now, they think you are taking it away from them, living them nothing for the future and a part of their past lives gone to ashes if you ever divorce.

Maybe they already sacrificed some part of their lifestyle to fit yours and they see the future with more sacrifices.

Now, I don't know if that's also the reason you wanted a prenup. Maybe you should explain yourselves. I may be wrong, I'm not your partner. 
But I've been with my boyfriend for 14 years, currently pregnant with our first, my bf doesn't have his own business but I know I sacrificed a lot just by being pregnant and I see friends who married business owners who have a lot less time on their hands than me because they have to compensate and I would think this would be quite unfair if their partner left them nothing in case of a divorce. 

I know money is often seen as a reward for taking risks and as the business owner you are the ones taking the risks, but if you need a partner to take care of your personal life while you concentrate on your business, it would be fair for the partner to be also considered a business partner. The business growth wouldn't be the same without their help. That's one point of view. Maybe yours is different and it's irreconcilable with theirs.

So anyway. I may be wrong, again, but it wouldn't hurt to see your partner's side of the story. I think that's what's missing to be able to make a fair decision about the wedding.

Is it she just doesn’t want to have sex with you? Is she seeing someone else on the side? Or is it immaturity? Move on, you guys are not compatible. You will be much happier sharing yourself with someone who appreciates you!

And framing it as "when" you get divorced and not "if" will surely lead to the reaction of "why bother getting married if you've got one foot out the door?"

If the first argument anyone has is "statistically speaking, more than half end in divorce" then "why bother with marriage at all" is the real question. Don't bother with a prenup, don't get married, save your money and legal proceedings.

I’m begging you to listen to Vic and turn off the martyr complex.

Also, if children are in the future, is there an expectation that she would be the primary caregiver and make sacrifices to her future earning power in order to benefit the family?

You're looking at it as protecting your business. What opportunities will she have during the marriage to protect herself during any divorce? For example if you have children, will you be primary carer or expect her to do all that while you grow a business she has no part of? This needs to be a much wider discussion about responsibilities and commitment, and risk.

Do you not see the irony in you saying it's a bad idea to date coworkers, and then assuming this guy must not be interested if he didn't make a move.

I see you trying to make flimsy connections for no reason.

Dating coworkers is a toxic experience. I know because I've been there. At best, you'll break up and it'll be an awkward situation to have to talk to them every day. At worst, it could be a toxic sh-tshow where drama ensues. 

Even just expressing unresolved feelings is weird. 

I've literally had to quit two jobs for this reason and I'm a low drama person. 

But realistically speaking, it sounds like he's not interested anyway. At best, he probably has the same policy of "don't date coworkers."

Your father needs to see a doctor. Diabetes with new onset paranoia/delusions is almost always a sign of sepsis, urinary tract or kidney infection, diabetic ketoacidosis, or other metabolic dysfunction

Break up and live your life

I'd be holding malice. This is ridiculous. It has to be about something else??

No. I can’t afford it since I’m struggling financially

Everybody wants to die old and peacefully in their sleep, and yet, the life insurance industry exists. A pre-nup can protect her too - has she considered that?

Thankyou for being kind.

The whole thing is very unhealthy! I understand that it feels real for you, but maybe this is a good lesson to remind you to work on yourself. Have you gone to therapy?

You probably should have brought this up much earlier in your relationship. It does sound like you two may be fundamentally incompatible, not incredibly helpful now I know. I guess the question that you need to ask yourself now is, is protecting your business more important than your relationship?

Puppy love. You’ll realize it when you age and think about this, you’ll laugh. 

Anyway it takes time to heal so take all the time you need.

You'll need all that info to file for divorce and to file for him to pay child support. If they don't know where he works, or what his SS number is, they can't find him to garnish his wages.

Assuming he's employable.

I'm of the opinion that you shouldn't pursue a relationship with someone unless they've demonstrated the ability to be graceful and realistic. If the relationship ends, you need to know that they won't become vindictive.

Well, most marriage vows include, “till death due us part” or some variation. If you mean to marry someone with those vows, a prenup is pretty offensive.

You’re just anxious dude. Unlock that horny beast in you and you’ll be fine.

So, she says that you don't have faith in the marriage and her. And that's why you want protection.  
Turn that right back on her. If you both know that the marriage is solid, why does she need protection? If there's no chance that you'll divorce, then she has nothing to worry about!  

After all, this relationship is SUPER SOLID. I mean, it's not like she would ever forgo compromise and leave the marriage is she doesn't get exactly what she wants, right?  ^^right??

I understand that point.  But the problem with this argument, to me, is that generally the state-mandated one that we would get absent in agreement tends to result in sharing everything (or at least sharing more than the agreement OP wants).  So then I have to ask, why do you want to share less with me, your would-be spouse, then you would as a default?

If you wanted to do a prenup that said “no matter what, you get 50% of everything,” okay.  But somehow the prenups are always less than what would be available under the default state.

As OP said, he wants to “protect the business.”  From who?  From her.

No one thinks they are going to get divorced, yet so many people do. Me and my partner adore each other & don’t think we’ll ever get divorced, but we still decided to get a prenup since we’re both coming with assets. Has nothing to do with how confident we are in our relationship.

It’s fine to disagree, I would be cautious in giving people advice that could have serious impact on their life, yet not having the understanding to do so.
I never said it was about love.
The love languages have a type of love language called physical touch, some people have no interest in that type of love language, and the guy could maybe find something useful there. I never said it will definitely for sure solve his problem.
The psychiatrist part also can help, for sure with understandings of things, and the guy himself, again not claiming it will for sure solves the issue, but it could be helpful. 
It’s up to him to decide what he wants to try.

I have had an experience where a girlfriend’s boyfriend didn’t want intimacy with her, and she didn’t know why.
Also my guy best friend, although not asexual, doesn’t care about it that much. Whereas I and most of my male friends are like hungry wolves. So yeah, people are different. But this is definitely not your usual thing, because she is completely against it. Maybe the guy doesn’t know the whole story. That’s up to her if she wants to be completely honest or not.

op slipped up and said she a couple times

40% of marriages fail..

BPD was my first thought too

It is "offensive" if the idea of marriage is being gazed upon through rose colored glasses and concepts not based in reality, though.

Remove the sentiment, take the reality check and the legal protections for both people entering into a marriage contract is serious business.

As stated above, most marriages end in divorce.

The partner is a she, specified in the third paragraph.

The problem with this argument, to me, is the “standard-issue one” says we’re sharing everything (or at least sharing more than the agreement OP wants).  So then I have to ask, why do you want to share less with me, your would-be spouse, then you would as a default?

If you wanted to do a prenup that said “no matter what, you get 50% of everything,” okay.  But somehow the prenups are always less than what would be available under the default state.

Sadly this seems like a red flag and it seems like the choices you where given are what you’re left with at least from the outside looking in if conversation can be had I hope it does but if it comes down to it protect what you built and find someone who’s willing to understand that you want to protect it a prenup is not a lack of trust it’s a safety net for both of you

And even worse, if you take the standard issue government one, you are likely also agreeing to let the government retroactively change the terms without either of you consenting.

You already have your answers, and you are not hurting him now, the relationship has ran its life and that should be respected

Hurting would be when you feel such intense emotions and weight but keep trying to drag and hurt both of you under it. 

Breaking up does not mean you stopped caring or the love and care was never there, itll always be there as a very important chapter of your lifes book. Now you just wanna write the rest on your own.

How old are you and how old is she?

You say that he loves you and you know this because he tells you so. But does he **treat** you as if he loves you?

You write that he does things against your will, that you tell him you don't want those things and that afterwards he says you were OK with it, even though you have repeatedly told him you're not. Would you do that to someone you love? 

If he loved you, he'd listen to your wants and needs, and if he did something you didn't want, he'd be horrified at having hurt you. He certainly wouldn't do it again. That's not love, that's selfishness.

To add onto this, a friend who recently got married explained their reasoning for a prenup. She and her husband wanted to have the conversation about not only assets but pets, property, potential children now when they like and love each other and are thinking clearly rather than later, if needed, while emotions/tensions could be high and vibes are bad. Best case scenario they never use it, worst case scenario they can’t/wont be vindictive about things because they laid it out clearly while in a good place mentally

Oops, I missed that. Thanks 🙂

Construction worker- 2 months

\*MOST marriages fail, in fact. Just a smidge over 50%.

And, agreed. Life and other things happen.

OP’s significant other is female (“she said”).  Possible that OP is a woman too though.

How engaged has your partner been in your business? How much has she eased your life so you can fully focus on growing this company? 
Absolutely zero? 
Some? 
Quite a bit? 

How do you feel and how does she feel? Women’s contribution to their partner’s success is too often taken for granted. 

The more intertwined your lives are, the more factors you have to weigh into a prenup, and it needs to protect both partners.

Prenups don’t have to be so black and white or only protect one party. If a couple divorces, they will have to do so based on the terms of the state they live in. Or, a couple can pre-determine their own terms if a divorce does unfortunately happen. It’s about making your own terms, as a couple and individuals, rather than being subject to state law.

I think you can imagine why it would offend people lol come on. I think prenups are a good idea but it is an inherently sensitive and vulnerable topic.

I guess my question is, why did you wait 2 years to bring up the idea of a prenup? 

I think a lot of the time people are reacting more to feeling blindsided by the ideas of what a prenup means to them and those feelings it being up after years of feeling like whatever the lack of the idea of a prenup means to them is the status quo.

It’s offensive because the notion that it could fail indicates a lack of faith from your partner.  It’s not hard to understand that sentiment

To be fair, maybe the partner is male. Op didn't specify genders (despite it being rule #1).

What was there relationship like?
Predatory

What does your partner say about his 19yo ex?

Same thing all these creeps say, she was "so mature for her age" 🤢

What kind of work did he do? 

Do you and him have any children?

You started talking to someone online a few days ago and you've already confessed your undying love?! That's a sure fire way to get ghosted.

Sorry to be blunt but you're 25 years old not 15. 

Infatuation is not love and it will fade in time - get a grip, get out of the house and touch some grass.

The secret to happiness is low expectations. They also say that attachment is the root of sorrow. 

Lowering your standards can be a complicated thing depending on what you actually value. 

In a way, it really could make you more happy. But also could just being doped up on drugs. 

The truth is, there’s no grand destiny at play, so you might as well find joy where you can. Better to have lower standards and be happy than high standards and be miserable all the time. 

One of the biggest lies in relationships is that perfect is out there. When it’s really just about making the most out of your life.

When I married my first husband, I of course had zero belief that we would ever get a divorce. I never thought that I would be the kind of person that would want anything in the case of divorce either.  But, by the time my marriage ended and the separation began. I hated that man with all of my being (still do) and if he had anything of value to take, I probably would have tried, just to spite him.

Point is, relationships change. People change. sometime you grow together. Sometimes you grow apart. Things happen. Always protect yourself. Statistically marriages end in divorce around 34% of the time.  If 34% of your bag of M&M's were Skittles, you would pour them out and separate them before committing to eating them.

Ask her out. As long as you’re respectful you should be fine even if she rejects you. Based off what you’re saying though it sounds like she likes you

"I’m sad because if he wasn’t so depressed, maybe he’d love himself and treat me better too. Maybe he’d want to be a dad." Or maybe not. Maybe he would still treat you poorly and still wouldn't want kids. You can't change people, this guy will never magically transform into a wonderful, attentive boyfriend, he is who he is. Do YOU love YOURSELF? Why are you throwing away all your standards and trying so hard to accept this guy??

I think this is a good example of the campfire rule. That means leaving someone better than you found them as you would a campsite. Based on what you describe it seems like y'all were together for many years during a transitional period of your life as teenagers and I imagine having each other during that was immensely helpful for each of you. 

Also at this age this may seem like the biggest choice you have to make in your life, but quickly things will move on and it will fade into a distant memory. Couples do break up quite often and you and him will not be the first. And for the reasons you were describing I think his family will understand if you talk to them that it's due to you and him heading into different paths.

It is that easy though. “I also have no idea when her day off is” … Ask her

Given the way you described the exchange, I'd call it more of a red flag than a mere boundary.  You can expect more of this moving forward.  If she'll do this over an event (divorce) which may or may not happen, she'll use this kind of threat for anything else she wants.  You may not be as compatible as you feel.

I don't really agree, because it doesn't sound like the issue is that GF feels unloved. The issue is that GF is disinterested in sex, and from what is written seems to have never been interested in sex. And that's not something that OP can change.  I doubt it's a communication issue.

Just ask her out. Right now you don't have her and if you ask her and she says no then you still don't, but you're regret free. 

You're fine without her so you will be fine without, you have nothing to lose.

I have been dealing with this issue since my teenage years. Idk why and how it’s possible but i get attached really easily and really quick. I understand how unhealthy it is and I’m seeing the consequences now. Also as I’ve mentioned before, I really do want to go for therapy but i can’t afford it as I’m struggling financially.

I would love it if it was. 
she works at the club and the bar, we also don’t have the same days off, and I also have no idea when her day off is

I came here to agree with this sentiment. I was also in a similar situation in highschool. OP you are so young and you have so much of your life to meet new people.

Also you can't go through life without getting hurt. Embrace the challenges.

Shit what would I need that stuff for?

at this point you can explain the best you can to the other person and if they dont want to sign or accept and that means the wedding is off then unfortnately the wedding is off.

Dog she is reserved at times because she's been dropping hints for a long time and you've stonewalled her lol 

Just ask the girl out. It's pretty cut and dry.

He would smoke weed sometimes, drink a decent amount.. he worked a lot. Never ever ever did he physically abuse me or threaten me- he would yell at me sometimes.

“Hey, would you like to get coffee with me? I’m free this weekend.”

It’s that easy.

This seems very unhealthy to get attached that deeply, that quickly to someone but especially a person online. 

I'd leave it alone. Him deleting all the chats and blocking you is your answer. He's not in love with you. If he was, this wouldn’t have happened.

I say this with total kindness: please seek therapy. This is not a healthy response.

The second people you called clearly had no problem understanding you and what you needed so why couldn’t he?

They just can't help themselves.

I really don’t know. Professional help is out of option for me as i can’t afford it. I’m financially struggling.

a few statements that might help bridge the gap 

1. a prenup is an agreement made at the time when you are the most in love. that incentivizes both parties to be incredibly fair as each will be looking at both their own best interests and the best interest of the person they are about to share their life with. it’s better to front load that negotiation than to leave it and possibly have to revisit it when you are both filled with resentment 

2. having a prenup means everyone knows what will happen in the event of a divorce. that is so freeing. so many people stay in marriages forever because they’re afraid of being taken to the cleaners during a divorce. there’s no uncertainty with a prenup. which means you can wake up every day knowing that continuing the relationship is a conscious choice made without fear. to know the front door is open, that you and your partner can see the outside and are both choosing to stay inside because you want to and not because the door is locked and the windows are blocked is really wonderful

3. compare it to insurance. you may never have a car accident in your life, but who knows. isn’t it better to get a policy and not need it than to get in an accident and be destitute?

of course i’m a lawyer with OCD so i love prenups but i get that the idea of planning for failure freaks people out. approach any further conversations with empathy but consider if this is a deal breaker for you.

You're getting a contract when you get married. You are going to either take the standard-issue government one, or you can set your own one, but either way, there's going to be a contract.

Yes, thats why I suggested professional help. I wonder if you might have a borderline  personality

I’m guessing this will be an unpopular opinion here, but I understand where she’s coming from.  I understand people can (and do) view pre-nups as a cold, logical, and clinical “pre-marriage paperwork” that doesn’t mean they’re planning for things to fail.  But I cannot view it that way.  I cannot help but view it as “we’re entering into this marriage, but this is mine/not yours.”  And that, to me, is incompatible with a marriage.  So I would refuse to sign a pre-nup in nearly all circumstances.  If that ends a relationship, well, that would be sad, but I would view it as my would-be spouse not viewing a marriage the same as I do.  Might as well get it out of the way.

Now, I mentioned exceptions.  You mentioned a business:  if, for example, insurance—or a contract with some material customer—required that you have some agreement that your wife has no interest in the entity nor could she gain an interest, then I might consider it.  Because then it’s less you saying “this is mine and not yours” and more “it is this other entity that doesn’t trust you, not me.”

Hello Op, please google how to block YouTube channels. This would be a good first step to hinder him watching all tis strange stuff

I’ve been dealing with this problem since my teenage years and it still hasn’t gone away. I get attached really quick and it sometimes happens without me even realising that I’m getting attached. I don’t know how to solve it

I just can’t imagine having this thought process at the age of 26. When I was 14 I had my first boyfriend, lasted until I was 16 ish. When we broke up I was absolutely distraught, ringing him, texting him. I’m 34 now and when I look back on I give myself the biggest ick! 🥲 No way was I THIS bad though. I’m sorry OP if some of these comments come across as harsh but you seriously need a reality check.

For your first point

The opinion or badges of anyone who has no emotional or time investment in your relationship, should not matter, be it parents friends anyone. 

and a relationship is not a betting match that people can bet on of "make it" or "not make it". The only people who can decide if a relationship makes it or not are the people involved in it. 

The second point is an answer you already have, just a matter of seeing.

And for the third one, you are not responsible for how the other person perceives thing, relationships are less about love more about understanding how the other person feels and if you dont trying your best to understand. If that goes away love is not enough to sustain it.

What was going on with him when y'all got married? Did you ever see him using drugs? Did he work? Did he ever physically abuse you or threaten to before?

Prenuptial is saying "yea there's a chance we don't work out".

I used to hang out in those subs, not anymore i want to get rid of them but cantaloupe figure out how to which is why they’re still there. I really need and want therapy but it isn’t an option for because i don’t have the funds to get myself into therapy.

"near nothing will make them budge unless a reasonable argument is given"

That's annoying, to put it mildly. In healthy relationships, everyone accepts influence, and is ready to take the other's perspective. 

However, I would say a very reasonable argument in this situation would be "It is controlling to withhold sex based on your assessment of my self-improvement."

It would be different if they were saying "when you're underslept, you become unpleasant towards me in a way that turns me off." However, if that WERE what they meant, a reasonable boundary for them to set would be "I will only have sex with you if you've treated me with kindness that day," NOT "your sleep score needs to improve."

If you truly love her and want to make an effort, than you should cover some options before breaking up. Check out the book 4 love languages, you can skip to the parts where you discover her love language, there is also a test at the end of the book. Also if you can afford it, finding a good psychiatrist could be useful, as they have experience with human nature. Good luck bro.

Paragraphs are a thing.

You don't fall in love with someone in a couple of days...you don't love him, you love the **idea** of him...this is unsustainable.

Anyway, you've probably scared him off. Move on

You'll get over it. 

Might want to reconsider the subs you're hanging out on though. Seems like you're looking for something specific, which probably isn't the healthiest thing for you. 

Try to find a way into therapy. Even a helpline in your area.

Well done brother proud of you

She sucks. These are definitely red flags. I think you can find someone who has respect for others and doesn’t make your life difficult.

Do you not see the irony in you saying it's a bad idea to date coworkers, and then assuming this guy must not be interested if he didn't make a move.

I’m here to just add some devils advocate. 

Being a partner of a business owner is hard. The business owner takes on more than a standard 9-5 job, has more responsibilities than can pull them away, and essentially can absolutely pull you away from life duties that your partner will pickup. 

I think it’s fair for partners who are expected to pick up the extra slack you require to feel fairly valued for that. Potentially you approach it as that - protect assets before marriage and during marriage it’s shared. 

I think you may have gone about it the wrong way - not defining that it’s jsut you two as team deciding what’s fair, and not the government, and not as a protective measure “against” her. 

You can always start the convo with well this is how the government would define it - do you still like it now?

Some people tell themselves the wildest stories and then just believe themselves

Edit the text to break into paragraphs. Most people aren't going to want to read that. 

You're too insanely young, break free form this relationship. Use all your will power and give yourself the stability you've been looking for by focusing at school, making friends, planning a career, enjoying this time. Not wasting it curled up into a relationship that's horrible for both of you.

Ew. The fuck did I just read. Poor OP

Take their advice on how to break up with him.  They know him too, so they can help.  Don't stay with someone when you are unhappy.

Thats just.... how youre supposed to do things in the first place ? 

Lol 

Have you discovered healthy standards and boundaries AFTER getting into a relationship ?

Me when I was 16 on the library computer on a chat site I should not have been on with a 49-year-old. Who said he was 18. 😭😭

Man you were doing so well before the ... then we entered the manosphere.

Same! The thing that’s throwing me off is her responding to people like saying well then what am I supposed to do?

They lead with the shield on their hands ready, its just a document the same as estate planing funds

Not only should you have a prenup but it affects various issues with the business. It is a risk issue that can go into everything from customer to underwriting decisions. That your romantic partner is drawing this as a line in the sand is a big red flag. You will build community property together that if it fails will be divided equally but what you bring in won't.

As romantic as the notion of lifelong partnerships may be statistically it doesn't always happen. I wish I'd been as mature as you the first time around. This time around my girlfriend specifically brought it up before I did. 

Best case scenario she has some romantic notions that this is planning for failure. Worst case scenario is that she is very clear eyed on the topic.

At the end, you have to decide whether that works for you, because you know himself best and you’re the one who can best judge whether what he say is true or not, or whether that level of self-reflection is enough for you.

You can’t lose him? Girl, you can. It’s okay. You’re going to be okay, you didn’t even really know him just the him he decided to show you. Maybe his whole scheme was to scam you and you just got yourself out of the scam by being too clingy and like in this case might be a good thing.

Prenups can also be made to protect both partners, they are simply agreements for (worst case). Always better to have a plan. Statistics are against you. Living in a fantasy land to think you'll never need it or it's about trust; is what's dangerous and immature here... and that's a typical female response.

It all just hurts real bad

To make things easier to follow, I have given the pseudonym "Sam" for the partner and "Alex" to OP.

1. Why Sam's "boundary" is actually a rule:
-The illusion of a boundary:
As established, a healthy boundary is about what I will do. Sam’s rule is about what Alex is allowed to do with their own body.
-Parental dynamic: 
Alex’s instinct that this feels "parental" is spot on. Sam is acting as a gatekeeper, using data to override Alex’s autonomy. By deciding they know what is best for Alex better than Alex does, Sam has shifted from a partner into a supervisor.

2. Tech surveillance problem:
-Weaponizing Data: The sleep pod went from being a fun, optimization tool to a tracking device used to restrict physical intimacy.
-Psychological damage: Because Alex knows their body is being judged by a machine to earn "privileges" (sex), it has ruined their ability to sleep. The tool is now causing the exact problem Sam claims they want to fix.

3. The deeper dynamic this reveals is "Righteous Control":
-Alex mentioned that Sam is stubborn and won't budge once they believe they are "right," unless presented with a "reasonable argument." This points to a deeper, problematic dynamic: intellectual dominance.
-Sam expects Alex to litigate their own autonomy. Alex shouldn't have to provide a "reasonable argument" to have control over their own body or to decline being tracked.
-The Trap: Controlling behavior is often wrapped in "good intentions" (e.g., "I just want you to be well-rested"). However, bad behavior driven by good intentions is still bad behavior. Sam is prioritizing their obsession with optimization and "logic" over Alex's comfort, feelings, and humanity.

DEFLECTION: When Alex expressed feelings of not being listened to, Sam flipped it on them, saying Alex was "just upset that they are not doing what I want." This is a subtle form of manipulation. Alex isn't trying to force Sam to have sex; Alex is trying to stop Sam from using an app to micromanage their sex life.

OP: Partner needs therapy. Feel free to leave them. If not then explain the difference between a boundary and control (although, i don't see your partners ego to actually see the difference) 
or you need your boundary to be refusing data tracking:
 "I love that the sleep pod helps us sleep, but I am no longer consenting to having my body, sleep scores, or data tracked and judged. Going forward, I am turning off the tracking for my side of the bed. If you choose to look at the app data anyway, or if you bring up my sleep scores to dictate our sex life, I will walk away from the conversation and sleep in the other room for the night."

Long distance can work but yeah meeting first is usually step one

That is not healthy at all. He may not have been who he said he was. Not even close.

You don't "fix" anything here. This person made it clear they don't want to talk to you further.   
You log off the internet, and go do things in the real world. 

I was casually chatting to someone here who DM'd me. Couple of weeks of banter back and forth, nothing explicit, and we live in different parts of the world, so there wasn't a possibility of anything. But I enjoyed our conversations. We shared multiple interests.

He recently deleted his account. Just like that. Gone. I was disappointed in losing someone who might have become a friend, but I'm sure he had his reasons, and I wish him (and his dog) nothing but the best.

If you have to make a reddit post about someone you've never met before, it's time to touch some grass and make some changes in your life.

NTA.

I don't think it's a matter of a boundary, OP. I think your partner's response to a prenuptial agreement is a red flag. 

You have every right to want to protect the assets you've built before she was even in the picture. I think any reasonable partner should understand this. While I agree that things that are built together within the framework of the marriage relationship are assets owned jointly, this is not the case in business, inheritance, or property as long as marital funds are not co-mingled in those assets.

Speaking as a woman, I don't think you should go through with the wedding if she refuses to sign a prenup. When you care about the person you should understand that sometimes, in spite of our best intentions of forever, marriages just don't last. That is a sad fact and reality that millions of people face in court rooms every year. I just believe that if the marriage ends, that both parties should at least be able to leave the situation at least as well off as they entered it. It's not any more complicated than that.

That's a nice analogy made me giggle but yeah i am leaning towards mismatch now

She literally sent me at least 200 messages and tried calling me dozens of times

No thanks

If you guys are arguing before even having date #1, it's time to let go and find an in person GF.

I guess we established over facetime talking on hours to end. We even made plans to meetup but things happened. I agree it is a talking stage atp.

I don’t know why it offends people that their marriage might fail. Marriages fail all the time. Plan for divorce, separation and death please.

Why are you with this child? Is this what you want out of life? Do you think he’s going to magically change his behavior one day?

Couples counseling! 

You guys are not talking about the same thing. 

Your POV: I've built this business from the ground up, it's my livelihood, and I've done everything to protect my business and this contract is part of mitigating risk. It is a logical part of being a responsible business owner, which is who I am.

Her POV: Marriage is a full dedication of my life to the well being of another person. We are building a life together, and the foundation of that life is that everything is shared. If things get hard, I need to know that I'm hard to leave and that I'm going to be ok. 

She thinks you're treating her as a risk to your business and you are. But it's also true that you're building a life together and that you want to share. But she feels devalued and you feel threatened. 

Couples. Counseling. 

Good luck.

My partner and I went through something similar as OP and it took a while to get to the same page but once we got there the actual execution was simple. Both of us had our own independent legal review  (we made our prenup with Neptune) so neither person felt like they were signing something the other had set up the document reflected what we had talked about and it was done before it had a chance to become its own separate issue.

Well all depends..

We all go through the power struggle multiple times in realtionship. 

We start out great and than we start to notice all these little things we dont like and that becomes the main focus. 

We get so caught up in the things that bother us because we cant except sometimes people are different than us. 

We lose sight of all the other things and it becomes all about what we dont get and dont feel and sometimes thats about us more than them. 

You cant change your partners core at all and alot of times the things you feel in love with are the things that start to bother you. 

But as long as there is mutual respect and core values align, it's not really about lowering your standards its more about can you accept this person is not you and never will be and can you both mutual love each other with intention and growth.

You're in a relationship before you've even met in person. Come on you're not 13.

That's actually a decent way of looking at it - a bit like having a will vs intestacy. Trouble is plenty of people get twitchy about stuff like this, like making a will is being morbid and thinking about death. "Let's decide now as a hypothetical 'what if' and then ignore it for our happily married lives." I think anyone getting *this* bent out of shape over a prenup, without even wanting to discuss it, at best isn't willing to discuss difficult issues, and at worst has an unhealthy attitude to stuff like this.

Holy text wall. If you want people to read this, you should type in paragraphs.

With equal respect, I do know what it means.

The point needs to be made that her ability to consent is not being respected. Putting it in the reverse terms (ability to say no versus ability to say yes) makes the point, doesn’t it?

And most abusers start the control in steps.

First, if you want a prenup you will need **two** lawyers. One to represent her and one to represent you. If you two do not have two lawyers, it is a good chance the prenup will not be fair and may be thrown out if you ever divorce. 

When you brought the prenup up, did you explain to her she will have a lawyer helping to make sure it is a fair? Because if not she will likely see this as you manipulating her into harming her future self interest. She must have a lawyer helping protect her.

Leave. Good lord. Leave for good.

It's not a "boundary" or a red flag. It's information. You say you want a pre-nup. She says she doesn't want a marriage with a prenup. 

I think you shouldn't jump right to trying to change her mind or explain yourself, but to actually listen to what she's saying and hear that she's prepared to leave over this. If she is...maybe you're not compatible. 

Go back to the conversation when you're both calm and talk about it again, acknowledging that if you're not on the same page the relationship may be over. Ask questions and listen to her responses. Try to explain yourself. 

If she won't move forward, then you need to decide whether you're willing to risk your business for this person. My partner owns their own business, and I completely trust them and don't think we'll ever divorce, but I agree that it's a smart thing for them to protect their business. Life is long, all sorts of things can happen. 

I would worry that she needs you to "prove" your trust with a huge risk. That's not a foundation for a healthy relationship. If she trusted you, she wouldn't question it.

This reveals a fundamental incompatibility. I can see both sides of a prenup - "just in case" vs. "you don't trust me", and it's not worth bickering about which is "right", any more than it's worth debating so many things - people feel how they feel. The problem is you can't really compromise on a prenup - one person ends up feeling resentful, unless you can truly meet in the middle, see each other's points of view, and try to take the emotion out of it. Not everyone can, which again, isn't "wrong", but if she feels that strongly about it, and you feel that strongly on the other side of it, and you can't (or she won't) have a conversation to understand each other's perspective, then you're stuck.

These men need to be single. Choose better men. There’s zero reason to be in a relationship with a slacker who thinks you’re his mom. Ew.

Turn that sadness into productive anger. 

Be pissed off. He's lied and cheated and he's an addict. 

They rarely change or improve. 

Get pissed off, don't announce it to anyone, but for for divorce and for child support. 

GET ALL YOUR ACCOUNTS IN ORDER. dig through every scrap of paper, find every bit of banking, CC, social security and work info on him that you can. You'll need all of it. 

TELL NO ONE. Especially not him.

no its cause hes also looking at my bfs posts. and like being in a relationship now puts things into a perspective about how id feel if my bf were to do the same thing. but yeah im jjust blocking

You need to find someone who you accept for who they are WITHOUT having to lower your standards or get rid of your expectations.

I spent 6 years with someone I was sexually incompatible with before I finally left. It does not change. Time to reckon with moving on.

Whoa, huge leap there

You did not ask for anything unreasonable you have a business that predates the relationship and savings that predate the relationship  you want to clarity on paper before combining your lives legally. That is not distrust that is just being an adult about something that has real consequences the response you got was not someone expressing discomfort or asking for time to process, it was someone shutting down a conversation you had every right to have and attaching a threat to make sure it stayed shut.

She's trying to be clever by saying that instead of what she really means, that it you two were the last surviving members of the human race she'd pick the cucumber over you.

With so much respect, please, stop using the term “gaslighting” if you’re not sure what it means.

and he’s never actually followed through.

Because you're a convenient punching bag. You take your beating and  you never leave. He has an easy target to direct his anger. Where is your agency in this? Why are you staying with someone that treats you and the relationship this way?

Leave. It is only 1.5 years and you are already starting to resent this ascept, imagine 5 years late. It is not easy cause she is a great lady. But there are also other awesome ladies out there and sexsually compatible. 
Also saying from my sad situation. Stuck in a dead bedroom marriage. Every other day is a challenge to stay committed, to not wander. It is tough, get out now while you can...

You're 30 years old and succumbed to peer pressure to do drugs before driving? Girl.

He’s just not done exploring yet as he puts it and it’ll help us better in general

There are many many problems here, but this is the death knell.

This is not fixable. He deliberately sets you up, then insults you as a "joke" when you respond reasonably. He will not take steps to improve himself. He openly tells you he needs to date around. 

Quite frankly, it sounds like he knows the relationship is done, but he doesn't want to be the "bad guy" by actually initiating a breakup. Instead he's treating you poorly to "force" you to break up with him instead.

that's a tough spot to be in. the way she delivered it so calmly actually makes it more concerning than if she had just gotten emotional about it. like she already decided this was her line and wasn't interested in discussing why you might want one.

  
protecting a business you built before the relationship isn't about not trusting her - it's just practical. the fact that she sees any financial boundary as a trust issue could be problematic down the road when other money decisions come up. and refusing to even talk through your reasoning feels pretty inflexible for someone you're supposed to be building a life with.

This is a terrible relationship. Why are you in it?

The moment that an ultimatum appears in an adult relationship, things have gone toxic; partners do not get to (and should not try) to coerce one another into doing things.

If a pre-nup is something that you need, and is something that she is unwilling to have, then the two of you have a fundamental incompatibility, and there is no workable path forward.

Hi OP, here’s the thing about abusers. They test boundaries all the time to see what you will accept. This man-baby knows he’s a lazy pos, but wants to see exactly how much you will tolerate. His thing is to leave when you call him out or throw a big tantrum, anything rather than do any work he considers a woman’s domain. Once you accept this boundary violation, he will push further and further until you have no autonomy. 

It’s obvious to everyone here you are in a volatile, escalating abusive relationship. You have a decision to make, but not for long as he is doing his best to control you.

You are not asking about a prenup anymore you are asking whether the person you are about to marry can handle a disagreement without issuing ultimatums and declaring subjects closed.

He gets horny then jerks off in the bathroom? I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but you guys are over.

How are you 32 and still tolerating this honestly? Yes it's abusive. The relationship should have never lasted this long. Do you really think he is the best you can do?

Some people view a prenup as you thinking the marriage will fail, but that is not necessarily the case. You should try to have a separate conversation with her and explain a different perspective. All that a prenup does is define how assets will be divided upon divorce. This already exists without you guys making one, it’s just that the government decides. So instead it’ll be you guys who decides what happens. (Stole these words from a YouTuber). Make sure to reassure her that you are completely devoted to her and the relationship.

if we are getting married everything should be shared

But this isn't a conversation about sharing things when you are married, it's about what happens when you get divorced.

You should stand your ground on this.

You're 18, you've been in therapy since 14, and you already know this isn't right - trust that instinct. The fact that he physically restrained you and your own mother normalized it shows how twisted this whole situation has become

  
Breaking generational trauma means recognizing these patterns and choosing different, even when it's scary as hell

Put the business in your mom or dad’s name, check the legalities of course, but even in a prenup if you agree. The business would still be yours or your family’s and in the prenup she wouldn’t have access to the business your family would still own 100% of it as it is under your mother’s name.

If you’re interested in therapy, check to see if any therapists near you accept income-based or “sliding scale” payment. That was how I afforded therapy at a time in my life where I didn’t have the finances. Good luck. Sincerely.

"We had finally reached a good place in our relationship because I had finally stopped checking his phone, and I could finally say, “I trust him.”"

How immature are you? 

You shouldn't be in a relationship where you have to repeatedly check his phone. That's a glaring red flag and a sign to leave. 

In that situation you should leave, instead of being a warden and continuing to check your spouse's phone. Just because you felt slightly better recently doesn't mean the issue was solved. 

How low does your self esteem have to be to think that was acceptable or normal? 

Even now you're still with him. As if you're a helpless child who can't make decisions.

I really want to talk to a therapist but I’m unable to afford therapy. Which is why Reddit was my only option.

BRIGHT RED FLAG

There is a psycological difference betweens personal limits and manipulation.

     A boundary is an invisible line that defines your personal limits regarding acceptable behavior, communication, and treatment. It defines what behaviors you find acceptable and unacceptable, and tells others how they can treat you to make you feel safe and respected. It is a rule you set for *yourself* to protect *your* well-being, not a rule to control someone else's actions. (Example of a true boundary: if you yell at me I will end this conversation until you can speak calmly). 
     Healthy boundaries are not walls that isolate you from your partner; instead, they act as bridges. They reduce resentment, foster clear communication, and allow both individuals to thrive as their own people.

While genuine boundaries protect the person setting them, they cross the line into controlling behavior when they:

1. Dictate another person's choices: Imposing strict rules on what someone else can or cannot do.

2.Use coercion: Threatening to punish, withdraw love, or withhold necessities to force compliance.

3.Lack follow-through: If you set a "rule" but just nag, scream, or make someone feel guilty when it's broken, it operates purely as manipulation

Omfg, this was so fucking weird for me to read, because my husband and I are in the EXACT same boat  like, to a T. I honestly don't have advice, I just exploded on him maybe 10 minutes ago about this, because I had already had a talk with him about this earlier this week- with zero effort. It's just building resentment and i honestly don't even want to be around him today. Better luck than me. If you figure anything out, lmk 💚

Prenups are seatbelts.

If your partner cannot understand that you want to wear a seatbelt, then they aren't an appropriate partner for you.

Sweetie, the 11 year age gap you have with him is concerning. 11 years likely means that he automatically has more power in the relationship. 

Men that date with extreme age gaps like yours tend to be very controlling and take advantage of younger women. 

Adding the Ex’s age, and your relationship is not a one off, this is an intentional pattern of abuse and control by your boyfriend. 

Which means he is intentionally preying on younger women.

RUN.

You're not in love with someone you've only known a few days. You have a crush and are behaving in really unhealthy ways about it. I'm sorry this was so painful. I'd suggest you take this story to a therapist to help you work on not jumping into things this fast and hard.

Ask to go out with her and friends and openly show affection!

Where is your self worth... 

No shit he's perking up he gets sex and doesn't have to do anything to make you happy. 

Your boundaries of wanting conversation during dinner and birthday gifts are already the bar in hell and you think to make yourself happier it needs to be even lower??

GIRL.

You need to protect that baby of yours and yourself. That baby needs their mom. That baby does not need an abusive father. This isn’t about who’s selfish or not. This is about you and the baby being safe. You are not safe with an unstable addict.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Love isn't enough to sustain any relationship, run away

It sounds like "never, and I'm a little sad about that."

it’s so weird bc even yesterday he awkwardly waves hi while walking by my desk, then stops by but just to grab some candy not to really talk, then i had an actual work question and instead of jsut standing, he like grabs a chair and sits so incredibly close to me i could barely move my arm to grab the mouse, and when i said i had a question he goes “you still have those?” like idk not his normal vibe and i guess i just need to accept that. i just don’t want us to be on bad terms and idk why we would be bc even the convo where he told me abt the ex i was friendly and tried to give meaningful advice and our vibe seemed totally fine it’s just ever since he’s been kinda different and i was hoping we could still be friends maybe you’re right!

Their “boundary” is how much sleep YOU get according to a machine tracker that may be inaccurate? That is absolutely nonsensical.

Lots of adults live in their family home. Don't be a jerk.

it's scary as hell but staying when you're this unhappy will only get heavier, you deserve space to grow too

The above submission has been removed because our AutoModerator has found that your post may be dealing with rape or sexual abuse in some way. If you are seeking direct advice on dealing with such a situation (or are asking if something constitutes rape), we ask that you please post instead to /r/rape, /r/rapecounseling, or /r/secondary_survivors (if someone you know has been abused). These communities have dedicated userbases that can provide and better guarantee the sort of sensitivity, support, and protection that may not be available here in /r/relationships. Please understand that you have done nothing wrong in posting here in the first place. We hope you understand that we are trying to make sure you get the best possible help available and give you the benefit of our experience in moderating this subreddit.  If you believe you are receiving this message in error, please message the moderators for reapproval.

Click here (once) to request reapproval and then click send **once** only.

The reapproval is manual, so send a **single request** only. Multiple requests do not mean faster approval, in fact they may clog the modqueue and result in reapprovals taking even more time.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Totally - boundaries are what I feel comfortable with, rules are made for others - conflating the two is gaslighting.

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I agree with the other comments, we need a bit more context on the situation. Upon first read of your post and previous comments, it does sound like a it won't happen. 

Do you watch marvel or enjoy anime? There are many plots where the switch timelines or are given a chance to go back and fix their timeline by choosing differently. She might be referring to this as in it's the timeline where your relationship with her ends.

If it was said after, "my mind says no but my heart still loves you" with your query as to if this is a second chance. I would assume the "not in this timeline" is her way of saying *no* in a more poetic/indirect way. If after 5 years, you both are considering a break up it may not be the best to continue. And if she meant, "not in this timeline" in response to you clarifying that this is a break up, you both need to work on communication styles, cause it could mean yes. 

In this situation I would say break up, keep the bittersweet memories. Grieve the loss of the relationship and/or choices in communication. Reflect on what happened and learn from it. Hopefully this will help you in future relationships.

Time flies and itll start flying faster now youre that age, like seriously. You can think this through and leave now or hold in resentment and leave when things get ugly years later. If you leave now though youll have time to heal and grow.

yeah we foreplayed for like 3 hours today and it worked also i was tjinking abt it too much... thank u anyways

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yeah, there is not a magical answer that will make everything better, OP. At *best* this is years of communication and/or therapy.

I agree.  I'd go further and say that the mother's opinion shouldn't outweigh her ever on financial decisions.

They also say people in rehab are selfish. So I tried to chalk it up to that but that doesn’t sit right with me- however am I the one being selfish?

yeah ur right i was thinking abt it too much it was perfectly fine today

they would tell me to leave but i dont know how to hurt his feelings like that, i do want out but i feel so horrible hurting him when he does care about me

A word of advice from someone who’s been there - you will be *shocked* by how quickly the opinions of his family and friends fade into the background of your life. 

Yes, they might be upset. They might not understand. Some of them may think you’re being unfair or selfish. And that’s scary, but my god, not *nearly* as scary as spending your life in an increasingly unhappy relationship. They are not going to spend the rest of their lives seething about a teenage breakup, and your life is going to be so full and change so much in the next few years that you will forget why you were ever scared to leave. Everything that seems important now will seem trivial before you know it. 

Unfortunately, it’s the kind of lesson you have to learn the hard way. I can tell you how it was for me, but you won’t know for sure that it’ll be that way for you until you’ve been through it yourself. But please know that, no matter what, you will survive this phase, and it won’t be scary forever. You’re more competent than you know.

i dont watch porn actually i never found porn amusing. Also i find it weird watcjing other naked people online having sex and the lasr time i consumed porn wss when i was 14 or 15 then i quit cuz i knew it wasnt beneficial in any way anf i was ruining myself.

I didn’t mean to upset you- I am just shell shocked by all of this and he’s in rehab and I feel bad if I just leave

thank u for this.. today she came over at my house again we cuddled and kissed for like 3 hours and i wasnt thinking abt it as things got intense i thought whst if that hsppened again but i wss like fuvk it and i went w the flow i got hard again and we were so intimate that we lost control over ourselves and my peepee didnt dissapoint xd

you don't know him. i had what felt like a fairly intimate relationship with a guy from reddit for more than a year. there was SO much i didn't know. you do not know this man, you don't know if he's very empathetic in his day-to-day life, you don't know if he's married, you don't know his arrest record, you don't know if he actually has the career he says he has, if he actually lives where he says he lives. you simply do not know. let it go, and maybe consult some resources about how to protect yourself from falling head first so quickly for someone you have never met.

One step at a time is how you do it.   
You're not feeling yourself in this relationship, and sounds to me like it's making you feel small. There doesn't have to any major bad thing that happens to justify ending it, it's usually a bunch of little things and this general sense that it doesn't fit.   

Whether you "look cute" together doesn't matter one bit. People who look at your photos are not living your life. What his parents think don't matter because they're not gonna be your in-laws, they're not gonna be much if any part of your life when this is over.   
Your friends and family who care about you will still be there. They will support you. Most people go through breakups at some point in their lives and can relate to your experience.

Tend to look at age gaps as a big yellow flag - there's a bunch of power imbalances that they bring, including emotional maturity, financial and income disparities, sexual experience, and experience dealing with manipulative or toxic people. If you're managing those imbalances, actively discussing them and so on, then they're fine. Also, as you get older the age gap will be less of a deal.

So the two dates you described - except for not using protection, they seem fine. **Sometimes people just want to hook up; and if the sex is good, why wouldn't you want to have it again?** Also, if you're just hooking up, then there's no real need to have the discussions about power imbalances and so on.

But the 200 drunk texts, the love bombing and all that seems to indicate that she has some unregulated emotional issues. That probably also means she's not currently monogamous - if she's behaving like this with you, then the odds are high she's behaving like this with other people too. Which again is fine - if all she wants is non-exclusive hook ups, then there's no better time in history for them - except that she's also emotionally overloading you.

I think you just need to talk to her about it, trying to avoid placing guilt on her for her actions or motivations (they're not much different than yours, really). Don't try and force her to be exclusive, don't ask her to change her behavior or drink less; but if you're going to continue to see her then she needs to let you know (in general terms) what she's doing as regards to seeing other people, drinking to excess, working on any issues or going to therapy, etc. Yall should be able to have an open conversation.

Otherwise, just enjoy the thing until you're done enjoying it and then call it off.

Also, there is no way you knew everything about this person you have never met. It’s delusional to think that. I cannot tell if this is a joke post, genuinely.

Days?!?! Days......actually just a few days? This is beyond unhealthy. Get off reddit and go talk to a therapist to help you establish healthy boundaries.

Can you look to your parents for support.  You have been together for a third of your lives, but that doesn't mean you have to stay together.

thank u for this.. sje came over my house today and i wss perfectly normal and it worked i stopped thinking abt getting hard and it worked natrually

I mean, you feel like you’re being surveilled because you are. Your partner is being really weird and controlling about this, and it’s concerning that they’re not taking your feelings about this seriously. Like, it’s one thing to worry about you potentially not getting enough sleep, but continuing to monitor your sleep patterns after being told it’s stressing you out and making your sleep worse isn’t helping or worrying, it’s controlling. Even if your partner means well, their behaviour is having the opposite of their intended effect, and by continuing it they are continuing to harm your sleep.

And, as someone else mentioned, sleep debt isn’t real! Your body has no way of keeping track of how much sleep you “missed” on previous nights, and sleeping extra hours in an attempt to make that up is more likely to make you feel groggy than help anything. The remedy to poor sleep one night is simply good sleep the next.

Uh yeah, I finally accepted him for who he was and left him BECAUSE he couldn't meet my needs. And like you, I was asking for basic things. Let this man go, he needs to work on himself.

The way you calmly respond to my soft check-in makes me think that your sister might be exaggerating. Just be careful with the kids please.

What the actual fuck

we did it again today and i was perfectly fine today thank u sm for this

If he won’t discuss it, won’t seek therapy, and doesn’t care if you’re satisfied or not, it’s probably time to move on OP. 

8 years is a long time to be unsatisfied. But it’s better than 9 or 10.

I'm also gen z (28), but I can't imagine being this weird and parasocial instead of just asking people to express themselves or just cutting my losses. Seems like so many people would rather figure out what's going on without actually talking to the person

What does he need to do for you to realize he's not worth it ? He had threatened you physically, had gambled away thousands of your money and he's an addict that clearly is not even showing interest for you or the child. What does he need to do ?

Even if he were begging at your door I'd be reconsidering this marriage, but he's not. 

This man has deeply serious issues he needs to fix on his own. Love is never enough , get rid of that thought in your head. Look at the cold facts.c

"What if in the future I wonder what if?" What if what? " What if I had waited longer and he gambled more money away ? What if I hadn't waited longer and he hadn't hit me? What if I hadn't waited longer and he hadn't broken our baby's arm ?

What if what ? Therapy isn't helping you bc you are too bend on making it work w someone that doesnt care. You can't be real

It might be time to look at other aspects of your relationship, this isn’t healthy whatsoever, I’m an insomniac and I don’t get things taken away by my partner just because I didn’t sleep well because that’s ridiculous and like you stated, it can help people sleep sometimes and you don’t have to be bouncing full of energy for it all the time 
Definitely start looking and being aware of yourself and your relationship dynamic because a quick google search proves sleep debt isn’t real 
Btw that’s not a boundary that’s controlling, a boundary is like “don’t do this when I’m doing this because it makes me uncomfortable or distracts me”

You can't make someone want to talk to you. I imagine you were probably really overbearing. The guy is a stranger.

You should do nothing in this scenario. You’ve gone way over the top and I am sorry to say that. You sound obsessive.

How am i supposed to fix this now ? He won’t even talk to me anymore.

I'm not sure he doesn't want her, he just sounds kind of asexual. Something she seems to have known for a long time. So this sounds like more of an OP issue than the guy. I wouldn't have made it through the first six months never mind 8 years.

What should i do ? How should i fix this situation ? He won’t even reply to my texts and i can’t stop crying

If the sex is good go for it duh

dude the mixed signals thing is so real and frustrating. like when someone calls you "girlboss" and "best friend at work" but also does the whole "come keep me company" thing... that's just confusing for anyone.

  
but tbh it sounds like he was probably keeping things surface level because of the ex situation, not because he didn't like you. guys can be weird about compartmentalizing stuff like that. the fact that he got distant after opening up about his ex makes sense - he probably realized he was getting too close while still being hung up on someone else.

  
losing both the friendship and potential romance at same time really sucks though. maybe once he's actually gone from the company and processes whatever's happening with his ex, things might settle into a normal friendship again? or maybe not, but at least you'll know where you stand instead of being in this weird limbo.

Girl. Just cause you guys talked a bit what you feel is everything doesn't mean anything at all.

It's possible he's asexual and doesnt see it.

What made you stay? I’m genuinely willing to hear why.

Not really. We knew almost everything about eachother. He shared a lot about his personal life.

I have OCD and still think this is absolutely insane and totally inappropriate. I mean personally I’d be done. Partner needs a therapist not an SO

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Met him a few days ago and you love him? Girl, you’re love bombing him. Chill out. 😬

Get tested. Anyone having unprotected sex with randos is a high risk person.  Wrap it up from now on and pray you aren't screwed.

It was a stranger online for a few days. Maybe you need to spend some time outside.

I have to agree that I think he might be emotionally manipulating you. The pattern seems to be that when things get hard and he feels vulnerable,  threatening to end the relationship is something he can control and in turn make you feel like the vulnerable one.

Dangling a break up whenever things get hard is incredibly immature and he is probably hoping you’ll dismiss the argument in favour of staying together. (Does that sound right?)

Regardless of his intentions with the threats, I wouldn’t be able to confidently say that this is something someone who loves me would do to me and this really requires some serious conversations between the two of you.

You're not getting off at all and he tells you that no problem exists? You don't have to believe things are true just because he says them out loud. Next time consider dumping people the first time they show you they're not boyfriend material

If they don’t trust you enough to be able to decide for yourself whether you have sex or not, be grateful that they haven’t raped you yet (I am assuming).

I think changing your expectations is making things easier on you with him but don’t think by you not having expectations he will magically become who you see yourself with long term. 

If you know you want children someday you are incompatible with someone who does not. 

I changed my expectations on trivial things (like how the towels are folded) in order to compromise and get along. At the end of the day it doesn’t matter how towels are folded, only if they are clean.

That’s fair. I’m not treating it as a certainty, just trying to process things and hear other viewpoints.

a relationship is work, and involves compromise. you find what you can live with, and what you can't. you push each other to be better, and you accept and love each other for who you are, flaws and all. don't date people you don't like, and don't date people you want to change, and don't date people who want you to change.

The not wanting to be alone comes from trauma. That part right there is going to be a big issue because it means you will accept basically any attention. You have to learn to have self worth and have higher standards before letting people into your space. Where do you live? I know where I live we are fortunate enough if you don't make enough $, Medicare expanded and you can get therapy etc. Quite a few states have done this so I would look into it. It would be worth it to do so.

this cycle will just keep getting worse and you already see the pattern - the threats are getting more extreme each time

i dont think you blew it out of proportion. doing all the housework and then getting that reaction over a simple chore would frustrate anyone. the bigger issue is how he keeps walking away instead of dealing with problems….

the most sensible advice in this thread

Look, I’m not going to analyse a conversation you feed me line by line. If you want advice on the whole situation, describe the whole situation. You have an answer to your question.

If it was not an ideal moment his  response should have been “let’s get back to this tonight” or something similar and then talk about it in a timely manner at the first “appropriate” opportunity.

“partner a boundary is something you enforce on yourself. this is a rule you have made for me. I am an adult who can consent and I wont be using this sleep pod or x condition until you decide to listen to me instead of a machine.“

But she Said I have a Chance…

Sure but being with someone who clearly doesn’t want you for 8 years is even more stupid lol

I think she’s telling you it’s over, and it’s not coming back. You’re just engaging in wishful thinking otherwise.

kinder than I deserved

Nah. You deserve kindness because everything you have done has been out of kindness.

Give it a week, then talk to her. Don't assume she'll want you to move out. Come up with a plan, tell her that her friendship is one of the few things you are sure of in life, and see if you can find a path that prioritizes that over all else.

I'm sorry you can't afford it. Time to get a better paying job and then afford it and then do therapy and then become reddit-approved.

She said her mind is telling her not to come back, but her heart still wants to give me a chance.

I do need therapy but my insurance doesn’t cover it and I can’t afford it. I think I have a good head on my shoulders and I’m thinking it through in a healthy way, at least. And I don’t have any mental health struggles that affect my daily life or ability to function at all. I just don’t like to be alone, but that might be because I don’t live somewhere comfortable yet.

I feel like the comments questioning why you would stay with him this long are not helpful, some people arent placing as much value on sex as others or they are happy to put that issue away if the relationship is otherwise great and thats okay. 

You are obviously not truly okay with this and you may have tried to be for the sake of loving him. If you cannot have a conversation about this after being together for this long, its either time for therapy or reconsidering the relationship. It comes down to an issue with communication at this point. 

I would tread carefully as this behavior could be a result of sexual trauma in his past that he doesnt feel able to share. Approaching him in a gentle way and saying "maybe there's something here you dont feel comfortable talking about, and thats why I feel so confused" opens the door for him to say yes, there is something else, without having to disclose exactly what it is. At that point you could lay out the idea of therapy, if it is sexual trauma it is going to take extreme patience on your end to not just pursue the answer but show that you are there to support and not judge.

I could be wrong, but “not this timeline” sounded more like “not now” than “never” to me. I’m not assuming anything, just trying to understand what others think.

I'm sure you'd rather be trying to find a life partner who fulfills you at 36 versus eight years from now. If this is how you want the rest of your life to be however then godspeed

He's not interested.  Whether he's asexual or simply isn't attracted to you, he doesn't want physical intimacy.  He's been showing you this the entire time, and you stuck around.

  
He's only a boyfriend after eight years and you have a dead bedroom.  I don't know why you stayed, let alone for eight years.

This is not the way loving people behave toward those they love.

It sounds like he does not want this relationship, and your best move is likely to grant that wish.

I’m 18 dude, it was my first time ever having sex. I lived most of my life in foster care. I am indeed clueless but I got pretty good advice here.

I resent this only because I would do way better if this were a creative writing exercise

Get therapy. Put the work in.

Marriage is stupid if there no kids involved.

Yes! I have done this. I realized how much I focused on the negatives. I asked myself if I was better off with or without him. I looked at the good things he brought to my life. I stopped thinking he was doing certain things to bother me and just realized he was doing things I chose to let bother me. And I decided to stop letting them bother me. I also decided I didn’t have to meet all of HIS expectations if they didn’t sit well with me. Relationship changing! We can’t change other people. Only ourselves

What you accept is what will continue.

You need to give her space. Maybe the compromise is not as much space as she'd ideally want, but some. It's time to find a way to get out of the flat to give her some alone time, and to check dates with her before making plans. 

For at least a couple of weeks you really need to focus on self soothing and giving her room to adjust to her new meds.

Everything you say kind of makes it seem like things are weird because L wants them to be weird. This process seems designed to turn this from a group of friends into a group of people under L's control.

You don't need to explain anything to anyone - L has already cut you off, just formalize it by spending your time with friends who will have your back and have learned how to deal with manipulative people like that. Don't fully ghost and block L all at once, just kind of dwindle down until one day he realizes he's been unfriended several months/years ago.

It seems like this could become an issue with your partner if he's pushing you to keep good relations with L. Your partner should have your back when you decrease or cut ties with someone who is toxic and manipulative to your detriment.

Don’t start drama, you should’ve blocked him 6 months ago

You need therapy, not a FWB. You will never find a healthy relationship dragging this guy along and leaving your own issues unaddressed.

“Your boundaries are valid but they aren’t rational” 

Hack that fucking thing. Fix your score yourself.

Emotional regulation and consistency is an essential part of a healthy relationship. This type of wild mood swing will wear you down and make you deeply anxious. I promise, you can do better. This is not worth the stress.

This is a good way of looking at it. I’m not sure about the moving yet. Emotions are still running high and I want to give things time to settle. But even if I do move, I won’t leave her alone.

I’m not sure what you think that phrase means. I read it as “maybe in an alternate universe where things had been different”. It’s definitely not “not now”, it’s “not at all”.

Girl, he’s just not that into you.
Get out of there…

Yep. Him and her for staying with a guy like this for 8 YEARS..

This sounds like a completely exhausting relationship.

I am afraid of being alone. It’s true. I love being around other people. When I’m alone I often dissociate and waste time just doing nothing.

I stopped at “boyfriend of 8 years”….i couldn’t IMAGINE that let alone no sex. Life is TOO short to be anything but happy..what are you doing? Leave

Having crush while in along term relationship is completely normal however boundaries are not controlling your partner, they are for protecting your relationship

I actually don't think it's useful to ask "if you were in my position" because everyone will have a different tolerance for distrust and frustration. Different people have different amounts of patience for rebuilding trust. I think it's worth it to have a series of conversations with yourself and your partner about what would make you feel like you can trust her again. Like really, truly, honestly and harshly ask yourself first - do you see a world where you trust her again? What does that world look like? What do her behaviors look like? What are YOUR behaviors in this world? What do you think it takes to get there from both of you? You may not be able to answer this question definitively. But if you WANT to reach a place like that again, then in your place, it seems to be worth it to try to pursue that. If you react with disgust, exhaustion, avoidance, maybe that's not something you want to pursue. Only you can know. I think you're looking for a definitive "tell me what to do" to avoid having to process a lot of your reaction to this stuff, but sorry, relationships can get messy and they only get less messy when you understand yourself better. Only you can decide what's right for you.

Gen Z grew up as digital natives and have much less in person social skills than previous generations.

Yeah. It has been really frustrating because he refused to talk about this. Whenever I tried to bring this subject up, he blamed it on me, saying that I always find the most inappropriate moments.

Since the beginning? How have you let it go on for this long 😭

That’s really weird. I dont know what a sleep pod is, but i would find a way to disconnect from it/the app, or sleep on the couch if my partner did this. I  would not allow someone information about my sleep pattern if they were using it to control me.

Your specific tastes in men don't include someone who speaks to you during dinner or explicitly want a family? Your specific tastes in men are men who make you lower your standards to the ground?

If dating is slow, you should be going crazy that you're wasting your dating time on this man. By "accepting this man for who he is" you are accepting his depression, which is not something you can fix or force him to fix.

Time to aim higher than someone who won't talk to you on dates

So in the meantime you're going to keep this guy emotionally anchored to you instead of letting him move on and find someone that does want to be with him. YTA.

And you’ll waste those years accepting scraps from this guy in the meantime? Sounds like you’re afraid to be alone.

Dating is supposed to be slow... unfortunately people have been taught that if you don't have instant gratification then its not worth doing it that way.

But the funny part is that's how you give yourself the best opportunity to meet the right person. Any guy who is okay with you sleeping around while he's trying to court you is a red flag. It means he's not going to take you seriously. Just a heads up.

There is no such thing as "sleep debt".

You can not catch up on sleep.
If you do, you will suffer the same consequences as if you neglect sleeping. 

Also, stop using sex as a punishment, thats fucked up - unless you are turned on by that obviously.

You are 100% leading this guy on. You're keeping him as a placeholder until you find someone "better". Please break it off and end the FWB arrangement.

What kind of answer are you hoping to get, other than “he doesn’t want to have sex with you”? It seems like you already know that, so what would change?

OP is THIRTY-EIGHT?!?! I swear the way this was written made me think “financially dependent teenager.”

No, your situation sounds pitiful if I’m honest. Move on and find someone who you don’t have to lower your standards to the ground for. 

Good men exist, but you need to love and respect yourself to both find them, and match their energy and lifestyle. This guy isn’t it, let him be miserable on his own; his mental health is not your responsibility and even if he wasn’t feeling depressed there’s no incentive for him to be a good partner or Dad - you’re giving him everything he wants without him putting any effort in. I can’t imagine having sex with someone who behaves like this. Pick yourself up, build your confidence, and get out on some dates!!

So he couldn't meet the basic standards of an adult human... And your response was to put the bar on the ground?

You are not a rehab center for broken men. Aim higher.

You can only be happy with someone in general if you accept them for who they are, yes people can make changes but in general big changes will never happen. Only you can decide what are the big things to you and what are the little things and what you're willing to accept. No one is going to be perfect and be everything for you, that's why we have other important people in our lives and things we can enjoy alone, but your life partner should be hitting all the big things you're looking for in a partner. 

Something like not being good at birthday presents might be something you can accept, this is something I've accepted in my relationship where my husband is terrible at presents or surprises on general but I've learnt to appreciate what he is good at like being willing to do literally anything for me any time whether it be cooking pancakes or walking to the store because I had a craving or taking on my chores when I've had a bad day. In that example I think that's a trade I'm very willing to make. Disagreeing on kids however is almost never something that can just be accepted and you can't stay just hoping he will change his mind.

I would like to understand why you stayed with that person for 8 years, there's a sexual incompatibility since the beggining.

  
Something must be really off.

This is a fair point! I’m still working on my martyr complex. I’m trying not to make decisions for the both of us anymore, but that’s also why I feel like we need space from each other. Things are too tangled between us and I want to get back to a place where I don’t feel like I have to constantly downplay my feelings to make sure she doesn’t see it. And also, it’s only been a day. 

I do want to make it clear that I’m not going to move without speaking to her about it. I just need to be practical about my options. I’m in a foreign country and I don’t have family to fall back on. I’ve only been with my boyfriend for a few months and he’s also caught up in this situation. I need to have a backup plan in case things do get too difficult for the both of us. We’ve agreed to reassess how we feel in a week or so. I can’t impose on Josh for more than that anyway. 

And I promise I have not abandoned her. We’re in near constant contact.

I'd call it a crush handled poorly, as well as unprofessional behavior in calling the coworker cute. 

It doesn't sound like anything I'd end a relationship over, as long as she keeps it strictly work only going forward. But I don't think it would be unreasonable to decide that you aren't going to be able to trust her to do that.

Theres a big difference between 18 and 23 imo

Dating is slow and boring. I have a very specific taste in men and it’ll probably be years before I find the right person.

She peaked in HS and never left there mentally

Run

She has physical needs that she is getting met.

Just wanted to clarify for myself, you have just started being intimate intimate two years ago? The past 6 years before that you've never truly been that kind of intimate with each other? That's definitely not good. It'd have been a dealbreaker for me after 6-8 months in.

He has been this way the entire relationship. You should not have stuck around.

That or some obsessive/compulsive or codependent behavior, not normal for sure. Most people sleep very well afterwards, so idk what they’re on about. 

What’s next? Withholding sex bc you aren’t eating enough spinach?

But I don’t think you read my post clear. We still are hugging each other and kissing and still having sex but she she’s she doesn’t love me. That’s why I’m confused . I just don’t know if it’s from my behavior or if she might be lining someone else up to be with to get rid of the guilt of still being with me .

Eewwww, so controlling.  Make up some rules they must follow or you’ll punish them by withholding something.   See how that goes.

Something is wrong with him

Why give your time to someone who its not going to work out with? Spend that energy finding the right guy. You've got to be tired juggling him + others ? Also, how would your dates/potential future bfs feel you're still messing around with your ex? You're not giving yourself a good shot at finding someone new.

Either that or its the most exhausting group of 26 year oldsnij the history of the world

You lowered your standards to the ground. What's left?   
What if you go back and he's worse? Because why would he improve, you've shown him he can do NOTHING and still have you.   
In five years you'll be posting again on how horrible it's been.

That is kinda what we have been doing. We just audibly groan and roll our eyes. We used to argue about it a lot more but it's just rehashing the same thing. 

I think part of the problem isn't just the direct arguing. It's the feeling of judgement from her. Nobody wants to actively feel bad every single time they grab a beer. It just creates this atmosphere of negativity.

You do not seem very well educated on sex to be having it, especially unprotected.

She can still get pregnant while on her period. Yes, the chances are lower, but it’s not impossible.

You can still get STI’s without protection. You don’t seem to know each other well, you *can* ask if she’s seeing others casually and if she’s gotten tested recently. 

If you don’t want a baby at 18 or lifelong STI’s… Wear protection. You need to do your due diligence a bit. 

If she is being too intense with you, you don’t have to keep seeing her.

“Whenever I bring up an issue, he either fights or leaves”

Is he willing to go to counseling to learn how to discuss something without being defensive?

If not, you may want to reevaluate if this is someone you want to spend your future with. 

NOTT - while venting to family about your significant other isn’t ideal it sounds like you’ve been dealing with this behavior a lot and things finally snapped.

This is weird and bizarre, are they... insane? And you for putting up with it?

I would say maybe 1-2 times a week we have maybe 1-2 drinks, maybeee 3 drinks, usually just casually hanging out. On special occasions like a party or a birthday or a holiday we might have 5-7 drinks. That's like maybe once every ~1.5 months or so, more common during holiday season of course. 

Moderate alcohol consumption, from what I remember, is defined as 8-14 drinks a week for a man (below that is mild). Even the lowest number there is more than double what I am consuming. 

I also want to point out, the vast majority of the deaths from alcohol come from the top 10% of drinkers. 

Anyways I don't want to sound like alcohols biggest shining knight defender here, but I only know this stuff because I have to fact check my sister when she makes her claims lol. I have learned more about alcohol and its health/socioeconomic effects than I ever intended to in this past year.

He’s playing with fire in like 3 different ways and doesn’t seem to be aware

what could a 40 year old have in common with a teenager. gross. DTMFA.

No, this is really sad

This is fucking bizarre.

No, you're not good, and it's never a zero chance of pregnancy, not to mention STD.

Yes she did we both had issues with each other you’re right I should have put more effort

Until she gets someone to validate her feelings.  Not going well.

He’s been talking about wanting a pair of sunglasses that his family recently surprised him with and he’s been really excited about them ever since.
I playfully tried to take it off him and made fun of him for it and said i didn’t like it
he acted childish

You don't get to "playfully" cross someone's boundaries and make fun of a person, and then call them childish.  You were childish.

Adult partners in healthy relationships don't make *rules* for one another.

Your partner is making rules for you.

That's not healthy.

He realizes he has made a mistake with his girlfriend but he's in too deep

So you insulted something your boyfriend was excited about, and wonder why he became sullen?

This is bizarre and controlling. Your partner doesn't seem to care about your feelings if their "boundaries" are involved. I'm not even sure this is really a boundary.

I am absolutely certain that your wife told you many, many, MANY times exactly why she was unhappy and what she needed to change. You didn’t listen and thought she was at a “tolerable level of unhappiness.” Now it’s too late, she has no more romantic feelings for you.

Probably a mix of that and the desperation that comes with approaching being middle-aged

This is so weirdly controlling

Sometimes people want physical affection. Sometimes for a variety of reasons, they dont. He might have wanted both hands to drive, his hand might have become uncomfortably warm, he might have just want to shift position and couldnt hold hands in the new way he sat.

Regardless, the issue that you got so hurt because of something so simple and innocuous really makes you look immature. This is something a preteen with a crush might ask, but youre a grown woman, allegedly.

Idk, but I’ve seen way more “why don’t you like me” insecurities over random innocuous things in the 30s dating pool than I did in my 20s a decade ago for whatever reason. I just suspect online dating has taken its toll on people, definitely more common with people I meet that way.

YTA.  He was trying to drive.

Yuck. I wouldn't be interested in a nonce like that, it definitely is gross

You need to start by telling him some specific things you'd like him to do.   
Not just "be more rough" but show him exactly "I want you to pin me down like this, hold my arms down like this and rail me like you hate me" or whatever it is you want. You could even get on top and show him on him what you want him to do.  
Do some playwrestling. Helps you both gauge where the limits are.     

The guy is a blank slate, he's got no experience and therefor not much confidence in the bedroom. You gotta teach him what you like. And it can be a real mindset flip for guys, cause we grow up learning that girls are delicate, we fight with other boys but we don't fight with girls.   
He's timid because he's probably way stronger than you and he doesn't want to hurt you.

Get a diary? Ain't you the one spending time reading and even commenting on someone else's post?

Last time I'll respond to some spam account unless you're prepared to hop on a video call with me (dw it'll be an anonymous platform). But you and me both know you'll never show up for that. I'm new here, you must be what's referred to as a 'redditor' no?

An online "friend" of 8 months always yells you she is a virgin?

There at a lot of red flags here man. But I would say keep enjoying it by **always** using protection and not giving her a ton of personal info (address, job etc) in case it goes too far and she doesnt want to let go.

Steak is too juicy and lobster is too buttery huh

You seem way too ignorant to be having sex with anyone.

Communication styles can be wildly different between people and it doesn't always mean someone cares less. I had a friend who was similar - super engaged when we hung out in person but over text or calls she was basically useless, just one-word responses and zero follow-up questions. Turned out she genuinely thought I was just updating her on my life and didn't realize I wanted actual back-and-forth discussion

  
The tricky part is you've already brought this up to her and she hasn't really adjusted her approach. Some people really don't know how to have conversations over text or even realize when they're being one-sided. But after 7 months and multiple conversations about it, she should at least be trying to ask you follow-up questions or show more interest in your day

  
Maybe try having one more direct conversation where you explain exactly what you need - like "when I tell you about my day, I'd love it if you asked questions or shared something about yours too" - and see if she can work on it. If nothing changes after being that specific, then yeah you might need to consider if this communication gap is something you can live with long-term

Man the drunk messaging thing would definitely freak me out too. 200 messages is way past normal "I had fun" territory

  
But look, age gap isn't that crazy - you're both adults. Maybe she just likes that you're not trying to impress her with money or status like other guys probably do. Sometimes people just click, you know?

  
The protection advice above is solid though. And if you do want to see her again, just be direct about it. Text her something simple like "hey want to hang out this weekend" and see how she responds when she's sober

What do you mean by a really high position? It’s not often you see someone this young in a top-level role, especially in a government position.

Protection isn't just about pregnancy, lol. It's about STDs. She might (likely is) casually hooking up with other guys. Wear protection.

I am sorry to disappoint you but we live in brooklyn lol.

That sounds really draining, especially when you’re the only one trying to keep the conversation alive.  You deserve a relationship where effort and engagement go both ways, not just you carrying it all.

bruh teh meds just started

This is definitely an “oh no, my steak is too buttery” moment. You’re young, it’s normal to feel intimidated and weirded out when a woman shows interest in you when you feel like it has never happened before. Just make sure she’s on birth control and get tested for std’s and you’re all good. Have fun with it.

You’re not supposed to understand it or get over it.

He wanted, pursued and obtained a sexual and romantic relationship with a teenager, as a 40 year old man. It’s gross, and he’s not a safe person to be in a relationship with, or particularly psychologically sound. That’s all there is to understand.

Your Gf HAS been cheating.  On her husband if they're still legally married.  She lied to and deceived you.  She should already be your ex gf.  Come on now you have to know this.

Honestly just my experience of college graduations and the fact that wherever she talked to her bf, he had on sunglasses. I think if he was wearing them inside, OP would have included how he was wearing them in places you don't need sunglasses.

You think it’s disgusting because it is. And you can’t get past it because he won’t admit that and is still trying to defend his actions. Dump him.

I am not sure if she is telling the truth but she said the same thing when she was sober just not in the same way.

The first time I didn’t use protection which was stupid of me but the next time I met her she was on her period so I guess I’m good?

I don't understand why she's so interested in me

told me she wanted to see me and have sex all the time

Seems like you have your answer.

You can do the following.

Report the symptoms, and his behaviour, and his non compliance with diet to his doctor. Then drop the rope and leave it to them. They cannot tell you information but you can tell them. Your mother can tell the doctor what he is accusing her of so they have it logged. 

You can also report him to adult social services. They can offer him help but also log it that family were concerned but that your dad refused help which will mean he can’t claim otherwise later and be believed.

If he goes off the deep end accusing your mother or becomes verbally or physically violent then you call the cops. 

I am going to blunt here because I think you need to hear this next part: it is NOT your duty to ‘help’ in your parents terrible marriage. Your mum has chosen to stay with someone who has been controlling your entire family with his moods and his whims and his refusal to be healthy and his refusal to not be an asshole. That is on them. Not you. You are NOT his wife or his mother and he WIlL NOT LISTEN TO YOU no matter what you say. 

Your only choice is to detach. He wouldn’t be lonely if he had been decent to others at any point in his life. He wouldn’t be feeling unwell if he took his health seriously. This is just another way to control you and make it so you never leave. 

The man is putting POISON out in the yard! He is a danger to himself and others. Look into psychiatric evaluation, tell his doctors what is happening and then commit to yourself. Your future, your happiness. Stop acting like you are trapped in your parents home. Your mum can either cope with her marriage or she can’t. It’s not your place to help in this. Find a way, make a plan, get out of there and in the meantime stop acting like this is on you to fix. You can’t fix your father because he has always been this way. 

Concentrate on you. Learn what ‘grey rocking’ is and seek help and support from other people with similar families. R/raisedbynarcissists is a good place to start. You’re 38, don’t waste more of your life ‘helping’ your parents when your father will never change. Solve your own problems before you take on any one else’s.

That level of interest is a pretty big red flag. 

That's more of a stalker than someone who is interested. 

How sure are you all she has said before is the truth? 

Are you wearing protection? Don't trust her if she says she's on birth control.

This ^ recently went through a breakup . Sounds like the classic detach before they break it off .

You had her support you emotionally and help your emotional regulation, but didn't return the favour. And now you're upset she didn't do even more emotional labour to make the breakup easy for you. 

Like, you expected her to stay in a relationship she didn't want to be in any longer, and pretend everything is normal, for weeks? To make things less stressful for you? That's ridiculous and entitled. 

Let it go. Stop blaming her. Concentrate on learning to manage your own emotions and next time, be a real partner and provide emotional support too.

Age gap where the female is older isn't that bad because I have seen many couples where the wife is older than the husband

Can I just mention as-well it’s not like I’m discussing anything revolutionary or complicated; I’ll say how my days not been the best because of this and that, or how I did this today, or I’ll be explaining something that I’m doing. Because in my eyes that’s what a conversation is, and that’s what matters to me

She is entitled to freedom of movement. Freedom to associate with others of her choosing, and freedom of privacy.

However, she is not entitled to your trust. Lying by omission and sneaking around with this small stuff can be a tactic to condition you into accepting dishonesty. When someone begins boundary-testing you like this, bigger lies usually follow.

You also have it straight from her own family that she isn't being on-the-level here. Let her be someone else's drama-bomb.

I can not see a middle ground between wanting space and not wanting space.  It honestly sounds like a breakup is imminent.

The trains being cancelled are his excuse this time, and he'll have another excuse the next time he doesn't pull his weight. Why do you think you need to stay in this relationship when it's clear he won't change? You don't have to continue accepting this.

Dump him. That’s fucking gross

I had already cleaned from the morning - he came in and made his dinner and i returned. We had a conversation about how strange his texts were and how he didn't apologise before he left (i was in the shower when he left so we spoke through the door and he just said i'm going to work elsewhere) - when he said he had been w his dad i left and went to my brothers for dinner as my boyfriend had said 'go ahead and eat wont be home till 7 i'm delayed' that was it and i said what do you mean, arent you up the road doing work?...and he was shady and eventaully said no i just been w my dad.

So dump him? You looking for validation to do what you want to do?

Would it be hard for you to tell him what you actually want him to do? Like make an introduction into your fantasy world? "Harder", "hold my hands", "slow moves and hold my neck" - etc. It may be not natural for him to be dominant, but it's not a rocket science and when he would feel your emotions together with precise commands what to do, it may give some results later.  
Being together is a process of build up - including sex drive. I'm not a fan of "split up if he/she likes different color" vibe in reddit.  
It may be not what you expected at first (you are giving commands is not submissive at all), but these things are a matter of practice most times. Also it may add some spice to your sex life, to try things differently. Best l(f)uck both of you!😃

No normal adult above 35 would date a teenager.

You are incompatible. I don't see this ending in anything but misery and resentment. 

I'm a woman who loves sex, and I could never be happy in a relationship with someone who didn't want it often and who didn't initiate or want me as much as I want them. 

It just seems like you don't like him as much as he likes you, and even if that's not true, that's likely exactly how it feels for him. 

I realize you're married, so that's not easy to end. But you really are going to make this poor guy miserable.

You aren’t compatible. You want day to day life to be different than what he wants it to be. 

You are in a tolerable level of permanent unhappiness. Look up the phrase. He doesn’t really care if you’re unhappy.

*"He tries to explain it to me like she was very mature"*

No further context required.

You really wanna push thru your correct sense of disgust for this predator? Who gets mad and defensive when you bring his behavior up? Why?

Just move on.

I didn’t mean to sounds harsh I know it’s a bad situation. But yeah I wouldn’t be getting over it! Hope you’re ok OP

Get over it? Girl. There’s no getting over this I’m afraid, that’s too weird

I say flesh it out and make it a whole romance novel.

Sometimes it really is about the nail

(please don't comment on the aged difference)

Translation: Please ignore the massive problem that causing all these issues and help me continue to be unhappy.

The only question I have is, when you were at your brothers, did he clean? 

Op if he didn’t clean, please leave. You’re in toxic and emotionally abusive relationship. That is why you feel anxiety, your brain is catching up to what your rose colored lenses have been shielding you from.

i fear you might be correct. i hadn’t clicked on the OG post she linked, but it was only posted 2 days ago. there’s no way all of this happened in that short of a timeframe

You've already told him what you want multiple times and he keeps forgetting after making small efforts - that's not a communication problem anymore, that's just who he is sexually. Some people are naturally dominant in bed and some aren't, and it sounds like he might just be wired different than what you need

  
At 19 sexual compatibility is pretty huge for long term happiness, especially when you already know what works for you from previous experience

His actions are classic projection - all the things he was doing and guilty of he tried to say you were doing.

Be glad it ended so quickly, live and learn.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

What's with all the 30+ year old women with the mindset of teenagers lately?

Being broke sucks, but it doesn’t automatically make you a bad boyfriend. The part that matters is whether you’re still showing up and not turning every plan into a guilt trip.

Ultimately, all of the questions that you are wrestling with are valid; you don't want to get yourself into a marriage with a person and *then* realize that the two of you are not compatible.  So you need to figure this out before things go any farther.

And the thing is, no one can tell *you* whether you are over-reacting, because no one else *is* you, so no one else has your specific set of needs and perspectives.

It's possible for people from different cultures to work, but that doesn't mean that any *particular* cross-culture couple can work.  My wife was born in a different culture (and in a country that speaks a different language) from my own, and so there have been times where I felt a bit out-of-place at her family gatherings, because they were all more comfortable speaking their native language.  And there are certain things about her family's culture that I wasn't aware of going in.  So I get it.  I *know* what it's like to be surrounded by a bunch of people who all have something culturally in common with one another, and to feel like you're the only one there who doesn't "get it".

Whether or not the cultural divide between you and him is something that can be overcome is something that no one can answer for you; it'll depend on him and his level of tolerance about feeling like an outsider, and on you and your ability to help him feel included while people are speaking a language he doesn't know, and on your friends and family and their willingness to accept someone among them who is not of their culture.

There's no way for anyone outside the situation to predict what all of those factors will add up to, and therefore whether this will work.

But all of that may be secondary to the fact that, if you need to be intellectually stimulated in order to feel fulfilled in a relationship, and he just...isn't that intellectually stimulating, well, there's not a whole lot to be done about that.

i don't want to end things with him but i also don't want to be in a relationship where i'm the only one pulling all the weight.

If he is showing interest in these things *only because you want him to be interested in them*, then it's not going to amount to anything; unless those subjects really actually interest him, then his attempts are going to be no more than superficial.

I can't predict the future of this, but it sure sounds like he's just not the right fit for you.

Sounds like your boyfriend bought you tickets, and he was a bit disappointed about the reaction, or his plan didn't quite go as expected.

So he goes to his friend to vent about the situation. We all need to vent from time to time. This is normal.

Unfortunately his friend has a gossip problem, and told his girlfriend. Then of course she just had to tell you. Of course how accurate the story remains with each telling can be surprising. 

In the end, I think the biggest issue is, your boyfriend needs a better friend to talk to. The last one can't be trusted to keep his gossiping lips shut.

Trying to accept this fact

Girl… you picked the fight. After he said no you should have dropped it.  At the end of the day he’s an adult and can choose what he wants to wear in photos.

Your friend is not a good friend. Your friend says it would be sad if you became devoted to your partner. A good friend would be happy that you found someone that it’s healthy for you and treats you well. Hang out with your boyfriend and find a new friend.

If you were blowing off your friend for weeks and months I’d understand her. But you’re already giving her 2 days a week and she isn’t happy for your happiness mixing up your time?

Your friend should be happy for you, not talking about how it's sad that you're in a healthy relationship

Opposite situation....

I don't drink. Dad and brother alcoholics, mom and sister and I are tea totalers.

When my brother was in repeated rehab, a researcher said a lot of families work out this way.  All in or nothing. I hate the way alcohol makes me feel (flushed palms and feet and face), but my brother loved the way it made him feel!

I have my husband and his family treat me that way all the time about NOT drinking.  Slipping a bit of wine in my soft drink, making fun of my face when do.

Always with the "You've NEVER had a drink?" crap. "Just a little, It's a celebration! Not drinking a toast to the married couple means you don't support their union!" 

When its strangers (in other countries), I just dump it in the potted plants, but man, married decades and they just won't leave it alone. 

Maybe try the, "What's the matter with you? Can't you even have a little to support the couple?" would do the same thing with her as it does with me. 

Bug the bejesus out of me.

If every little show of affection feels like pressure to you, it makes sense he’s reading that as rejection, not just a different love language. You probably need to be really blunt about what you actually do and don’t want, because he sounds like he’s trying hard and getting whiplash.

Someone who says it would be "sad" to become devoted to your partner, is not a good friend nor person.

You haven't blown it out of proportion.  You are dating a lazy slob that feels content with you being his maid.  You erred in the 'returning home' part.

It sounds less like the alcohol itself is the issue and more that she’s turned her personal lifestyle choice into something she feels responsible for policing in everyone else. If you've already heard the same lecture 30+ times, I'd stop debating the health claims and start setting a boundary: "We respect that you don't drink, but we're not discussing our drinking habits anymore." She doesn't have to approve of it, but she also doesn't get to repeatedly judge grown adults who are making their own choices. The fact that she won't drop it after being told it's causing tension is the bigger problem here.

He still had time to clean up: he just let mommy do it for him because she loves him and he was tired.

He was toxic one, and you are better off without him.

Babes, this pattern will continue forever. Everything you just described sounds like the beginning of a very toxic relationship. It's not sustainable like this.

Idk I reckon your creative writing teacher would probably tell you to edit it down a bit.

Thank you for your answer, very interesting, made things clearer for me. Since we’ve been together for a few years now and marriage is something that we both would like, I am questioning things more than ever, because I am scared to make a wrong choice.

In my case, we are not on the same level- he can’t fully meet me on my level of depth ( both intellectually and emotionally), but he is showing interest for e.g. philosophy or psychology just to show me that he is willing to dwell into something that interests me, out of love. This becomes a little bit trickier when I need more of that kind of stimulation to be sexually aroused ( for some reason, my brain finds intelligence very attractive). Because of that I have started asking myself is this the right partner for me, since he can’t give me that fully ( am I overreacting?)

Second thing would be the fact that he moved to my country recently and is not speaking the language. That prevents us from hanging out with people, because most of my friends find speaking english tiring. He doesn’t mind, but it’s heartbreaking for me. I have always been the one to gather people together, and I always imagined how nice it would be to be surrounded by friends as a couple. Unfortunately that is not possible and probably will never be due to language barrier. ( again, am I overreacting?)

Third is cultural gap, which is hard to describe- it is felt in small gestures, words, ways we approach certain things. It can definitely be enriching to date someone from another culture, but sometimes it feels lonely, like we can’t get each other the way we get people from our own cultural backgrounds.

I agree with others, you picked a fight with him.

Giving advice without actually reading the post isn't helpful, because you miss key information... such as the fact that this is not a sudden change.

OP, please actually listen to Vic about her own feelings. Stop making assumptions.

He said he wants to take time to work on his emotions and self reflect. That he is aware he is having trouble processing these emotions. It is unfair he’s still asking for space but at this point do I respect it or just tell him I can’t keep doing this

Your feelings were hurt because your date wanted both hands on the wheel? Please act your age. There is no reason to be confused.

It is weird that they couldn’t even legally have a glass of wine

This has to be rage bait. A 31 year old woman would not be in her feelings this much over her boyfriend not wanting to hold hands while he was actively driving.

I say embrace it like the others have said here and even mention at the gatherings one day how you are really enjoying your own company at home and loving single life. They may see you differently too. They’re probably seeing you look sad or awkward right now because you probably look it since you said you dread these events.

Yeah i've never just left him - i went to my brothers for dinner and didn't say because i was totally hurt by the day and the lack of communication or consideration for me. He later told me trains were cancelled etc but he didn't tell me that.

What was there relationship like?

What does your partner say about his 19yo ex?

How long did they date, and how long were the pair “talking” before dating?

It’s okay to not reconcile this— it makes you incompatible, and that’s fine. I can’t tell you how to reconcile this, because I wouldn’t.

You think it’s disgusting because it is disgusting.

A guy who is nearly 40 doesn't get into something with a literal teenager for any reason that is good for *her*.

So you what you know about him is that he is a person who has it in his character to take advantage of someone decades younger than him...

...and when you bring it up, he gets defensive and angry about it, which means that *he doesn't even think what he did was wrong*.

If that's the kind of guy you want to be with, well, congratulations.

You should just forget about this "relationship".  He's not worth your time.

Are you actually 31? This seems so clear... he was driving

Don't invite her to any event where alcohol will be consumed

He didn’t want to hold your hand at that moment. He wanted to later. Are you looking for someone you can control 100% of the time so they always want what you’re in the mood for? Are you ready and willing to provide the same?

I have been in this position and I view it completely different to you. I loved being the only single person at events. I am only in charge of myself, the dream!

No boring partner squabbles or biting my tongue or tiptoeing to avoid needless drama I see my siblings navigate with their partners (and that I have had with exes). Lame af!

  
Being solo and only focusing on what you want to do and who you want to talk to or when you want to leave/arrive at an event is a fantastic feeling and I miss it (I have a partner now and while we dont really argue, I do still crave my solitude and Independence) 

Embrace it I say!

Wow a rainbow and a sunset. Did you check your horoscope?

The hand holding passenger contingent here is hilarious.

He lied.  And yes, they were together when he attempted to meet up with the second person claiming to be 'mostly monogamous' - as if that's a thing.

Of course your perspective is valid.  But why would you want to be with someone who was misleading you, and especially at such a vulnerable time?? This is no different than someone finding out their husband cheated on them, but it was a few years ago so it doesn't 'count' and they need an apology now.  Absolutely not.

Driving sometimes takes both hands or can't have your hands in the way. This lowkey reads like a teenager wrote it.

The thing is, unless you are willing to do the hard thing and say something to him, there's no way for him to know that what he is doing is bothering you.

You don't have to tell him to "get lost", but you *do* have to tell him that it bothers you when he does the things that he does, and you *do* have to ask him to stop.  Because if you don't do those things, he has no way of knowing that you *want* him to stop.

Tell him in a way that isn't accusing him of anything (because if you accuse him of something, it's the accusation he'll focus on, not on the real issue, which is how you want him to change what he's doing).

So something like, "[Name], when you get upset that I don't sit next to you, I get frustrated, because I don't want to feel like I *have* to sit next to you every time.  I need to be able to sit wherever I want to sit."

That's about as close to not accusing as you're likely to get, and there's still no guarantee that he won't *take* it as you accusing him of something.

But how he responds to that will tell you a lot.  If he actually listens, that's good.  

If, instead, he acts as if you are accusing him of something, or he gets angry at you for telling him how you felt about his actions, well, there's really nothing more you *can* do other than telling him to get lost.

That’s vile. We all need to know less about eachother

Girl, you don't need an apology - you need a new boyfriend.  He lied to you about multiple women.  And what even is "most monogamous"?  That means you think he's monogamous, but he intends to tip-toe the line and probably cross it eventually.

Yes it does, it's literally the point of the sub and encoded in the rules 🤣🙄

I'm confused. Are you saying that you, a woman in her 30s, were hurt that the guy you're dating didn't keep holding your hand while he was driving? Or are you saying he violently pushed your hand away? 

If it's meant how it sounds to me, it sounds like you're not very mature for a 31 y/o. This sounds like the type of post a teenager would make.

Ugh, yes. I had to take photos outside not long ago for a volunteer position and the photographer wanted us all squinting INTO the sun. The photos look horrible and I am
glad I don’t have to see it regularly. I wear sunglasses from dawn to dusk outside (and keep them on when I go into bright stores) as I have sensitive eyes, plus the sun is not good for your eyes!

If you had read it all you wouldn't be calling it a sudden change in personality.  Dude just sounds like an asshole.  And now he's an elderly asshole who is voluntarily brainwashing himself.

Did he push your hand away because he was driving?

When you love someone with all your heart, the last thing you do is bottle up your thoughts and emotions until they turn into an even bigger mess, and when you love someone, you don’t leave them hanging in emotional limbo.

I’m in a long-distance relationship, and I have a lot of insecurities because this is my first partner. When those insecurities hit me, I talk them through with my partner; I don’t let them build up only to dump them on it later.

And I know that every relationship is different and depends on many things; mine comes from a longstanding friendship (3 years) T4T and sapphic, so a lot of groundwork has already been laid, but there’s still a lot of emotional work to do because no relationship is built from scratch 

In short: you really need to think carefully about whether or not to stay, because when someone behaves that way, they’ll usually do it again sooner or later, or they’ll need to go to therapy to work on that issue

Yeah that’s fair, I guess maybe the problem is just stemming from my own trust issues. Thanks!

He will never change

Well, there’s only one thing you can do… start lots of drama and rumors about everyone’s partners at the next family gathering so they all get into arguments and break up. Then you’re not the only single one anymore.

When did sunglasses become taboo? It's not like he was wearing crocs or a swimsuit.

Bro if you have trust issues, maybe long distance dating isn't for you.

Like, you either trust her, or you don't. If you trust her, then it doesn't matter who she's around or friends with, or what she does when she goes out. If you don't trust her, which you don't sound like you do, then break this off now and save both of your time.

Read “the courage to be disliked”. The core idea is that most people live their lives seeking approval from others. It sounds like you are since you seem very concerned about their (potential) judgements. But if you let go of that, you’ll be much happier. 

This book really helped me and hope it will do you too.

Plus if they are outdoor pictures not having them on could be annoying as well. Idk if I have sensitive eyes or what but most photos of me without sunglasses are look terrible because I'm squinting.

He proposed, you said yes. If you expect everything to go perfectly you’re going to be shocked when you realize how hectic a wedding can be.

Listen, I think the advice you gave was sound and solid. It was good for her to hear.

You are also an unrelated person to a minor child giving advice about sex, and MANY parents would be uncomfortable with that regardless of whether the advice is good or not. If the parents don't want their child talking about sex with you, you should absolutely comply and you should apologize for overstepping without talking to them first.

You’ll have to do some research into how y’all could go about doing that in your state, & if it’s even an option.

Otherwise, if y’all haven’t already tried it, perhaps pushing back on him buying & consuming foods that aren’t good for his diabetes with the focus being on how it’s dangerous to eat/drink those things bc of his diabetes & that y’all want him to be around a lot longer, might could help soothe him somewhat?

After those two… is separation an option? Like your mom leaving w you & any other siblings in the house? That way he can be free to manage (or not manage) his own health, but at the very least the rest of y’all would be alright with your separated finances

As you said, it wasn't his fault. He tried to makenit romantic, so unless YOU plan a make-up proposal for pics or whatever, it's not on him. Like what do you expect?

This is  at least the third time you've posted this. You have plenty of advice.  Why do you think the advice is going to change?

As someone who’s been there before…it’s not worth the stress man

HOW MANY TIMES ARE YOU GOING TO POST THIS

You're creating a problem where none exists. Being single isn't an issue unless you decide to make it one, which seems like its what you are doing. Do people not talk to you because you are single? Is your family making fun of you? If not, then you just need to treat your general anxiety.

If you actually have a loving, healthy, and trusting relationship, then fights would not “feel like the end of the world”. None of that should go away just because you disagree or are miscommunication on something.

To me it sounds like he was very supportive   - including celebrating with you and coming to view the ceremony with flowers, and one of the first things you do is “playfully” (what does that even mean in this context?) asked him to take them off…why? Like this was before any photos. You don’t like them so he should not be able to wear his sunglasses on a sunny day? You weren’t being “playful” as you can’t hide intent, there was zero reason to ask him to remove them “just because”. Of course when you asked him again he had that in mind.

Girl, you picked the fight with him. You didn’t communicate well, you demanded he take off glasses he just got and is excited about for no reason because YOU don’t like them (and did not even communicate that) and then didn’t use your words to say you would like pictures without them - probably because you actually don’t want him to wear them at all. 

if he and you just demanded he take his sunglasses off without even explaining why (“I would like a couple photos where I can see our whole faces”.)

That's fair, I was talking about "standard drinks" or units of alcohol, and how that relates to actual glasses of wine - that's how it tends to get counted where I live. But seems I totally misread OP on that one - my mistake!

I agree, definitely think there’s a multitude of factors that are making me weary of trusting her. 
Thanks!

r/waiting_to_wed

An entire subreddit exists for this kind of situation. You're welcome.

Either you trust her or you dont. Nothing you can control from afar. Your girlfriend getting black out drunk is more concerning.

I think you've identified the core problem from what I can tell - your expectations of care from a partner are far too high. Depression is a hideous beast (I've had it too) but it can't be fixed by anyone external to the sufferer. You have been placing the work you should be doing to get better onto other people, and resenting and punishing them when they don't measure up, which is extremely unfair. I'm glad you've recognised this, its an important first step.

It's also important to note that the root of abuse is entitlement- which you've admitted to feeling. Again, this is another great first step.

What kind of support would be available to you in a perfect relationship? You've said it could likely be full time job. What do you think would be reasonable for you to ask? I think you should start there - remember,  someone can be there to support you, but they can't make you better for you.

The above submission has been removed because our AutoModerator has found that your post may be dealing with rape or sexual abuse in some way. If you are seeking direct advice on dealing with such a situation (or are asking if something constitutes rape), we ask that you please post instead to /r/rape, /r/rapecounseling, or /r/secondary_survivors (if someone you know has been abused). These communities have dedicated userbases that can provide and better guarantee the sort of sensitivity, support, and protection that may not be available here in /r/relationships. Please understand that you have done nothing wrong in posting here in the first place. We hope you understand that we are trying to make sure you get the best possible help available and give you the benefit of our experience in moderating this subreddit.  If you believe you are receiving this message in error, please message the moderators for reapproval.

Click here (once) to request reapproval and then click send **once** only.

The reapproval is manual, so send a **single request** only. Multiple requests do not mean faster approval, in fact they may clog the modqueue and result in reapprovals taking even more time.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

What makes you think it was an outdoor ceremony? And that the live stream was also outdoors?

Why is contacting her your first step - over blocking him and making your account private?

Unless you want him to continue watching your stories

Toddlers have tantrums when other people get things they don’t. At 30 he should be better at regulating his emotions than a 3 year old.

This is what long-term dating is for (at least for people who are looking for a long-term relationship): to get past that honeymoon phase where both people are being super-extra-careful to make a good impression on the other, so that both people have time to settle into things and revert to the person they are going to be going forward.

That's happened: now that the honeymoon is over, both of you are behaving the way you would without putting in any extra-special effort.

So look at how he is being, accept that he is being that way because that is who he is, and decide whether you can be *happy* with him as he is.

You cannot use "Well but things were better in the honeymoon phase" as any kind of reason why things should be different *now*.  Because during that phase, both people are doing things that are not sustainable, and so they eventually and inevitably *stop* doing those things.

i don't want to end things with him but i also don't want to be in a relationship where i'm the only one pulling all the weight.

You may not (in fact, almost certainly *will* not) have both of these options available to you at the same time.  You're going to have to choose between "staying with him" and "being in a relationship with a partner who carries his weight".

The path to a happy, healthy, fulfilling, successful relationship is *not* "Take a person who *isn't* the kind of person I need to be with, who *doesn't* do the kinds of things that I need a partner to do in order for me to be happy in the relationship...and then try to figure out how to get him to change *into* that person."

He's not going to change for you.  People don't change for other people.  They change for themselves, or not at all.  When someone *tries* to change for another person, but that change isn't something that they actually want for themselves, they eventually stop *being* the new person and revert to who they were before the "change" and the other person is left wondering why they changed back...and it's because the reason for the change was never valid in the first place.

He's stringing you along. I would move on.

Moderate drinking is actually more dangerous then I always believed it to be, according to recent studies. Not like almost guaranteed cancer bad but it does a lot of shitty things in the body. Andrew Huberman has a podcast on it if you want the objective info. However he also said moderate drinking is just a small calculated risk that everyone for themselves should decide to take or not. Your sister is just being neurotic about it and annoying.

What stands out is that he made a move toward connection, but didn’t address the rupture that created the distance in the first place. That usually means the relationship stays stuck in “surface reconnection” unless someone gently brings the underlying issue into the open.

You’re not betraying yourself by being open to him, but you also don’t have to pretend nothing happened. A small next step could be a simple message acknowledging the visit and seeing if he’s willing to talk more directly.

You don’t actually have to “like” his hobby to support him. The real concern here sounds like it’s becoming all-consuming and replacing shared experiences, which will strain any relationship over time.

A good middle ground might be agreeing on limits (money/time) while also intentionally scheduling activities that are just for the two of you outside of it.

Break up.  Seriously.  Unless you're going to be content living the rest of your life like this IT ONLY GETS WORSE.

Dude. You were the toxic part of the relationship. You feel like you got pushed towards growth and awareness, but that’s because he was just being a normal partner. The toxic part came from you, and saying your relationship was healthy is just a lie you’re telling yourself to avoid taking full accountability.

No, you shouldn't stir up a bunch of unnecessary drama in your ex's life. You have no reason to think the new girlfriend would care about this. Just mind your own business and block him if it bothers you.

Don’t ever date coworkers.

It’s easy to feel chemistry with them. It’s very common. They can become like an escape from whatever is going in your real life (even if it’s just boredom).

Consider that if he wanted you, he wouldn’t hesitate. There’s your answer.

It was incredibly weird that you felt the need to interrogate her about how she got to breakfast and when and why and with whom and why she didn't call you.  I'm not surprised she didn't feel like giving you an accounting of her whereabouts.

This comes down to when the request you made is reasonable. Telling him to take them off because you don't like them - not reasonable. Asking him to take them off temporarily for a few pics without them - completely reasonable. HOWEVER, he likely picked up that you were being weird when you told him to take them off before the ceremony. I can't fathom sitting through a multi-hour outdoor ceremony without the sunglasses I brought all because someone else said so. What did your boyfriend really do wrong in your eyes? Not listen to your demands about his glasses? Take time to think this through from his perspective and then prepare yourself to talk it out and apologize because you 100% started a fight with him when he was there to support you.

Yes you’re ignoring red flags. It’s not normal or OK for her to accuse you of incest, break up with you randomly, call you autistic, insult your cousin, etc

Maybe she just had breakfast at home? alone? like most people do every single day

or she just didnt wanna eat. and said she already had to end a conversation that probably would have had follow up questions. I've done this and I would probably do it with you because you seem  really controlling and paranoid

  
why are you making such a big deal out of it? take your partner at their word if you trust them. Don't be with them if you dont. It's really that simple

Yea you guys sound incompatible. Don’t let him treat you that way, he has a lot of work to do on his communication. If my partner acted like that consistently when I brought up an issue, I’d be out of there. You need to be with someone who can discuss things with you like an adult.

What specifically did he do wrong? He didn’t meet with these people and hasn’t tried to since you’ve been together. Seems like an overreaction.

This sounds pretty unsustainable. What's the plan next time you two have a similar disagreement? Rinse and repeat and return here filled with anxiety again?

At least one of you needs to get serious about improving the approach to conflict resolution for things to change.

People who take social media this serious aren't serious people. They don't have real problems so they create some.

If this is the level of thought you need to put into your new partner having breakfast somewhere else at the three month mark, I think it's best we all put down the relationships and returned to our studies.

Your boyfriend picked a fight with you? Are you sure about that? Because from what I’m reading, you made a pretty selfish request, he turned it down, and you kept pushing. Most people would be upset by that.

You knew he was excited about the glasses, he felt really good, he had planned a beautiful celebration and he brought flowers. And your response is to passive aggressively try to make him feel bad about the glasses?

Yes especially if she feels a pressure to respond when she already feel you are too clingy. You can't have just 1 friend. It's unfair for that person if they need time for other thing and your reaction to her diverting her attention is suspicious.. thats too much and overbearing.

You aren’t going OTT enough in my opinion. Why haven’t you dumped someone who treats you like a slave and then has a tantrum like baby when you call him on it? Your partner is shit and you can do much better. Even being single would be better.

This is soo not your business or your problem. Set your social media to private and/or just block him.

I think you should step back from being in a relationship with anyone if your partner eating breakfast without you puts you into a tizzy. 

If I were her, I would be rethinking this, because your reaction was over-the-top, controlling, super immature, and wholly inappropriate. She is a full-on human being that needs to eat.

It sounds like this is who this person is.  Don’t expect change. 

And honestly, the way you are responding to it also sounds unhealthy.

I’d honestly end this, work on yourself and your own healing, then look for something more compatible. Give him the grace to do the same.

Oh that’s rough! She’s not setting reasonable expectations for a relationship then. Not that that is unexpected for a teenagers (no offense of course you seem pretty level headed!) 

I obviously don’t know every detail, but if you’re setting boundaries and she’s not respecting them, then there isn’t mutual respect that is needed for a healthy relationship. I’m sorry you’re going through this, tough choices ahead. Wish the best for your situation and that she can come around to giving you a bit of space!

How many times are you going to post this?

Thats tough, totally understandable why you’re finding him untrustworthy. Is this really worth more of your time and energy when you’re still hurt and he’s not open to understanding that? I’m sure you’re full of resentment towards him. You deserve some peace of mind and if he isn’t willing to do that I’d rethink this relationship. You’re not wrong for wanting to feel understood.

Happy to help any way I can. Relationships can be complicated, and trying to gain the full understanding from reading a few paragraphs rarely paints the full picture. So hopefully some of the questions I suggested will guide you both to a better understanding of what you are looking for or emotionally need in a relationship, and if this relationship is the right one. These questions were the bigger questions that helped me on my journey. I used to be a big overthinker, that got better with therapy. I also had a past relationship that fizzled out after 3 years. It happens. I wish I had trusted my instinct back then that things were fading out sooner, but you don't always know something until you live it.

I would be open to experimenting with him if he approached the situation differently. When this issue gets brought up, he frames it to where everything is my fault. I keep trying to explain that my PCOS makes things painful and messes with my hormones and drive, but instead of acknowledging those things and showing concern about my health or feelings, he maneuvers to how he feels like he’s being sexually neglected because I’m not accommodating him in other ways, like through oral sex or by researching other new positions to try out. 

I feel like his lack of empathy, understanding, and grace shuts me down emotionally because I don’t feel heard or valued in those moments. And that emotional block affects me physically to the point where I don’t want to accommodate him. I know that’s unhealthy—I just don’t know how to break this cycle. I’ve shared how I feel, but I can’t make him show concern or compassion. 

I feel like we’re at an awful impasse. I don’t want him to feel like he has to explore on his own, and I wouldn’t mind exploring things with him if the circumstances were different. I want to be his partner and meet his needs, but I also want to feel considered and respected, not pressured and guilted. 

I hope that makes sense.

Honestly, it sounds like your sister has gone from making a personal health choice to making it part of her identity. That happens sometimes with diets, fitness, religion, politics, or sobriety, what starts as self-improvement can turn into feeling responsible for everyone else's behavior too.

If repeated discussions haven't worked, the answer may be firmer boundaries rather than more explanations. You don't need her approval to have a beer, and she doesn't need your approval to avoid alcohol.

Have a conversation to decide if you are officially dating. Likely hard for him to say since he hasn’t done that stuff yet.
If you get the monkey off the back and maybe even give him a cheeky kiss, the guy will be super happy

You might explain to him that attraction and initiation aren't always the same thing. Some people rarely think about sex unless the timing and mental state are right, but that doesn't mean they're less attracted to their partner or love them any less.

It sounds like the real challenge is helping each other understand that you're speaking different "love dialects," not that either of you loves the other less.

Talk about his family dynamics. Mexican families are very involved so his parents may want to control the relationship.

I mean, it reads like you picked the fight? 

I may agree with you that sunglasses are not the best choice for a photo but does he even know you don't like them? Because it reads like he didnt even know that. 

It doesnt seem like something you needed to try and intervene on, he was clearly focused on the day being all about you flowers and everything and you decided to pick at the glasses. Why bother?

Sounds like he wanted to sabotage your big day. 

May ex used to do this A LOT. Pick fights when I had something important going on. Or go quiet and moody so I’d be worrying about him rather than enjoying whatever was happening. 

Don’t date people like this. They only get worse.

Don't start drama. Just block him.

Girl the audacity of wearing sunglasses to your graduation photos and then getting moody when you asked him to take them off? Like I get he's excited about his new shades but there's a time and place for everything

  
You literally just graduated from masters and he made the whole celebration about himself being stubborn over some sunglasses. That's not you picking fight, that's him being weird about priorities on your special day

I'd built it up in my head especially over the last couple of months, and there aren't really any beautiful photos, and I'm embarrassed

What is it with the obsession over "the perfect proposal," making it into this big event with photos and all?  If this is the person you want to build a life with, why the fuck does the manner and circumstance of the proposal matter so much, or at all? Is your whole life this performative?

perfect, OP please listen to this

Make your profile private, problem solved. Leave the ex alone don't get  involved in his relationship.

On it. 

OP, you’re right. This proposal was hideous and a betrayal of everything that social media stands for. Tell your fiancé that he needs to re-propose immediately with a cadre of photographers, 1000 white doves released, atop a mountain, serenaded by a string quartet and a fireworks display in the background. Anything else will be totally inadequate.

OP said 5-7 drinks, you're saying he's only having 3-4. You see how common and easy underreporting is?

No one is going to tell you anything different...yta here

Imagine getting proposed to and it not being good enough

You are WAY too immature to handle marriage.  This is a disaster waiting to happen.

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

can someone tell her so she leaves the subreddit alone please

Sorry it's a mess, I haven't slept in 24 hours, I doubted if I was making any sense... already deleted a bunch.

I just don't even know how we can do that, he will never get over it, and it will ruin their finances.

And my own panic and self doubt are fighting each other about whether I'm overreacting, even though everything is saying I'm not.

She can’t stop reposting it until someone tells her she’s right, and no one has done that yet! How else can she go back to her fiancé and say “see, the internet says you fucked it up”.

Lol at 1.5 years and the last year has been tough. You sound like a nightmare.

I’ve asked him about this before, and he doesn’t like the idea and immediately shuts it down. It’s like he expects me to do what he likes, but if I suggest something he doesn’t like, it’s the end of the conversation. I don’t see how he doesn’t understand the hypocrisy there.

You've only been together 1.5 years and you're fighting this much. Yikes.

The best thing would be to talk to him directly. Based on his level of religiousness, I expect his family does have at least some traditional values that you may want to be aware of, but we don't know him, so we can't say.

 You can also make sure to share with him any cultural differences that you'd like him to be aware of for your family as well.

Finally, be sure you ask him about the longterm - what role are women expected to take in his family? What does a wife mean to him? What things will he and his family expect a woman to do? Does it align with your own values, your own desires?

Seriously? Get over youself. People are dying and you're crying over this.

stop posting this!!!!!!! boring!!!!!!!

I’ve been in therapy consistently for almost two years, and have progressed a lot. The growth I’m mentioning is the work I’ve done on myself. And we are still in the phase of deciding whether to stay or not. But in this phase, we’re taking responsibility for our own mess we bring into this relationship instead of blaming each other. 
Once we recognise the pattern we are bringing into a relationship that damages it, self growth can improve things. Is that so hard to understand?

We may be incompatible or highly conflicted.
If our disagreements don’t have disrespect, contempt, humiliation, manipulation, control, punishment, dishonesty or a lack of repair. It’s not necessary that every uncomfortable or undesirable situation is toxic, and my point was just for the free use of that word. 
A toxic relationship wouldn’t have pushed me towards self growth, self awareness and genuinely breaking patterns that depression taught me for years
I see it for what it is without delusion- it’s incompatible and difficult, but not toxic

we want to be in a relationship like this because we keep choosing each other over and over again and try to change our dynamics with self growth  

Self growth requires work on yourself, not from another person. You can't change your relationship dynamics with whatever you are defining as your "self growth." You are throwing together a bunch of therapy talk that doesn't really come across as coherent. Are you currently in therapy? What does your therapist think of your relationship patterns?

I mean, she’s an asshole. You’re describing a bad person who treats you badly. Stop putting up with it. 

why did you act like an autistic while I was talking to your mom? I thought you used your braincells.

Would you be okay with a friend talking like this?

Give her an ultimatum: either she stops that madness, or you break up with her, because that's a seriously huge red flag.

You have to create boundaries- who you are and stick with them - you grew up with your cousin, you introduce them, and then she degrades her - no woman is worth all that mental energy, cut your ties and move on

You are talking about his situation though ? Saying it is creepy and "like a fkn cult". Was this not describing how you view his interests and friends ?

Warning people about possible risks is not the same as calling their preferences "creepy". Stop pretending you were saying this to be caring or smth. You were just being judgmental

This is painful to read, but thank you 🥹💕

I didn’t say anything about him personally. So now we can’t insult cults lol. Seriously vulnerable people get pulled into weird shit all the time. If anything,  saying it sounds like a fucking cult is more of a warning. That what he wants isn’t what most people see as normal adult behaviour. If this guy is real, even he is questioning the behaviour is appropriate

Give hime an ultimatum between what he values more, his cardboard collecting addiction or your relationship. Make it known that you see what it's turned him into. He either owns up or hes just gone.

LMAO you asked for peoples POV and don’t want to believe that a 50% problematic relationship isn’t toxic? I have a healthy and wonderful life filled with love exactly because I refuse to be around anyone who I argue with 50% of the time. That IS NOT NORMAL in any healthy relationship.

Why on earth did you interrogate her about f\*ing breakfast? Poor girl. You should not date if you'll act like that, no one wants to deal with this. "I'm insecure" is no excuse, be better

It depends on what you mean by "perfect match".  If you mean "do we have to agree on everything, or like all the same things, or have the same hobbies" or anything like that, then no, you don't have to be a perfect match, and essentially no couple is, in this sense.

If you mean "Do we have to have compatible needs, such that neither of us has any needs that are incompatible with the other's needs, so *both* of us can have what we need in order for life and the relationship to be fulfilling", then *yes*, you do need to be a "perfect match", and there are plenty of couples who are.

Compatibility isn't about whether you both love watching the same shows or have the same interests or agree about everything.

Compatibility is about each of you being able to have *everything* that you need in life to make it a life you want to live, without preventing the other person from doing the same.

For instance, if a couple agreed on literally *everything*, with the exception that one of them needed to be a parent someday, and the other one absolutely didn't want kids...then all of their agreement is irrelevant, because there's no way for them to have kids (to meet one person's need) while at the same time *not* having kids (to meet the other person's need).

On the other hand, a couple who has disparate preferences on food, and movies, and hobbies, and a whole bunch of other stuff could in fact be compatible, if none of those differences made it so that either of them *couldn't* have what s/he needs, it's possible that they could make it work.  If, for instance, one of them was a real outdoor-adventure type, and the other one was a stay-inside-and-read sort...that's not a problem as long as the two of them are OK with the other going off and doing the thing they enjoy.

So what it comes down to is: if your partner remains just as he is, and doesn't change, can you have all of your needs met, in life and in the relationship?  Or in order for you to have all of your needs met, would you need him to change in one or more ways?

I said how. If you couldn't be a partner, why are you so defensive?

She didn’t really give you a story, so it’s not that it didn’t add up. She reacted to your grilling and, yes—poorly. 

But you’re leaping to all kinds of conclusions and, frankly, at 3 months, it’s way too soon for the notion that you’re entitled to the information.

If you want to rectify this, apologize for the interrogation and have a discussion about valuing openness and honesty. You likely made it harder for her to be forthcoming, but this can be repaired. 

Moving forward, do pay attention. Many of us grow up in dysfunctional homes in which it’s a matter of emotional life and death to give the *right* answer, even if it’s not the real answer. When grilled, we panic, trying to determine what the interrogator wants to hear so that we’re not hurt.

This can definitely be unlearned, but you have to take yourself out of the role of interrogator. It’s not an appropriate role, anyway.

Especially about something as minor as breakfast.

Work on communication and trust together. Maybe she’s not the one for you—but with *anyone* with whom you have a relationship. And then, on your own, tackle
your insecurities, because those aren’t for anyone else to heal for you.

You're both very young and better off finding someone who will understand your needs. If your posting about this on reddit, your obviously not getting yours met. If she doesn't understand, its time to move on.

I mean we can change hateful to insulting if you prefer.
Calling it creepy and "a fucking cult" is insulting

Three pages of AI Output and all you need is the first paragraph.

I don't know why you feel bad, you told this guy to cut this out and he didn't. You don't have to date someone you think is gross just because they managed to be on their best behavior for a brief period

the word toxic is thrown around way too easily. we have our problems because of how different we are but to answer your question, we want to be in a relationship like this because we keep choosing each other over and over again and try to change our dynamics with self growth, not control towards the other person. i have cut my losses every time things started to get difficult and that's why we are lonely and miserable. because falling in love and friendships is easy, but what it takes to look at your own flaws and stay in love is the hard part that people hate.

It sounds like Vic needs support and a friend right now. You're letting your own (unwarranted) guilt take precedent over your friendship.  I think you'd regret moving out and you wouldn't be a good friend if you did. She's already experiencing a deep loss and I bet she'd appreciate your care rather than leaving her alone and moving out. Your guilt isn't fair to yourself or to Vic. 

Also, fuck Paul.

No it does need to be advice seeking, that's just the rules of the sub lol

My husband is certainly not my “perfect match” I’m not sure there is such a thing. But we have a wonderful relationship most of the time and I love him very much.

It’s more likely,  in my opinion, that she skipped breakfast and didn’t want to eat (for regular 21 year old woman in society reasons) than that she is cheating. 

Work on your insecurities. No amount of interrogation will build trust.

Main issue is here he is watching porn which subconscious will lead to liking these type of women and having some unrealistic thought in his mind and you are only dating for 7months not much so he can control his desires now but if this continues this might lead to big issue so either you totally fix it or be like lets see what happens.

The most powerful part of your story isn't that the relationship ended, it's that for the first time you stopped asking who hurt you and started asking who you want to become.

Just to clear this up for me: so breakfast is taken somewhere far away not at home only reachable by bike/bus/car and since her father took her bike and she wouldn't take a bus she must have had a ride. Right?

Anyway, your gut isn't wrong. Why wouldn't she clearly tell you where and with whom she's been? Since you know each other longer, how is her male friend situation? Was there someone she was previously interested in? Do you have a history of mistrusting her/jealousy therefor she doesn't dare to tell you she went with a guy even though they are only friends?

Is she that calculating that after a happy three months she already needs to have secret dates? Could she prepare a surprise for you and met with people to organise something? All depends on how she normally is and the context. But sure it's super weird to not be straightforward.

Typically, other people have other lives/friends/things going on.  You should try making more than one friend.  Get a hobby and get out and meet more people.

It's normal in bad relationships / from bad partners. Good partners understand there's a problem and work to make some lasting changes, problem solved. Bad partners only change when they're forced to, and then it doesn't last, because they never really wanted to change, or to make effort for their partner, they just wanted to do the bare minimum to stop them leaving. It's been 3 years! If he wanted to change, he'd change. If he really truly cared about how these issues affect you, he'd change.

His goal is never "how can I be a better partner" or "what changes would be meaningful". Consciously or not, he **only** changes when he has no alternative, and then as soon as he thinks he can revert back, he does. By which point he's learned exactly how little he has to do to stop you from leaving, which is all that really matters to him. Stuff that's a problem for *you* is never a problem for him unless it affects him directly. It's short sighted / selfish / whatever you want to call it.

Don't get caught up in "not a bad person". A healthy happy relationship isn't determined by whether someone's a bad person or not. You're clearly unhappy with this pattern that **keeps** repeating, and he doesn't care enough to break the cycle. Because if he did, he would. He wouldn't need reminders, or repeated arguments. What he wants is to do things his default way, and he'll keep reverting to that, because he has been for the past 3 years. So you can live with that, or decide enough is enough and actually end the relationship. Fine, give him one last chance if you want, but it'll happen again: "oh no, this time I'll change for good", but he won't. A good partner won't leave it till the last possible major crisis point / upset. He shouldn't need a "chance", because he's had countless opportunities to make changes before that point, he just didn't care enough to. Don't kid yourself he "didn't understand" so you had to explain it better. He knew. He just didn't care enough.

I’m confused. Why did you assume she went anywhere for breakfast? Do people not eat at home where you live?

It sounds like you jumped from “I already ate” to “you must have gone out to eat”, “why didn’t you invite me”, “you must have gone out to eat *with someone else*”, very quickly and with very little basis. It’s strange that she gave contradictory answers but it seems quite plausible she was pissed because you were getting accusatory over a nonissue?

Like: consider this exchange from her possible perspective:

Her: “I got up, had a bowl of cereal, and took the bus to work because my dad had borrowed my bike.”

You: “Who did you cheat on me with before 1030 this morning?”

A relationship is not healthy if it is 50% conflict. What you are describing sounds quite toxic on both your parts. 

Why on earth would you want to be in a relationship like this? By the sounds of it neither of you are suited to this and it would be best for you to cut your losses here

Ah yes the “no one is allowed to feel bummed out about small things because there are others who have it worse” argument- always a brilliant one!

Yeah I mean good communication solves most issues but her concern about something so mundane is very misplaced.

Hay una ambivalencia bastante clara en tu relato: por un lado hay afecto real, respeto y una base funcional que se siente estable; por otro, aparece una duda persistente sobre si la conexión es “suficiente” o si falta algo esencial que no termina de encajar.

No suena a una relación problemática en sí, sino a una tensión más sutil pero constante: la diferencia entre una relación que funciona bien en lo práctico y emocional, y la expectativa interna de una conexión más profunda, más alineada o más estimulante. Esa discrepancia, cuando se mantiene en el tiempo, suele generar una sensación de inquietud difícil de nombrar.

También aparece algo importante: estás intentando diferenciar entre intuición y ansiedad relacional. Cuando hay antecedentes de duda o sobreanálisis, es común que la mente empiece a buscar “fallas estructurales” incluso en relaciones que, objetivamente, funcionan bien.

El hecho de que además haya diferencias culturales, de idioma y un inicio no del todo claro añade capas adicionales que pueden amplificar esa sensación de “algo no encaja”, aunque no siempre signifique que haya un problema real de compatibilidad profunda.

La pregunta de fondo no parece ser si existe un “match perfecto”, sino qué nivel de incomodidad interna estás dispuesta a tolerar dentro de una relación que, en muchos aspectos, sí es estable y sana.

Si quieres, un pequeño test de compatibilidad emocional, expectativas relacionales y ansiedad en pareja puede ayudarte a distinguir entre una incompatibilidad real y un patrón interno de búsqueda de certeza o perfección afectiva.

I think one can feel like they are missing out when their partner masterbates with out them. So she may be seeking reassurance from him that he wants her sexually especially if there is a deficit or a pattern of him avoiding sex with her. Good communication can address this.

También se percibe algo importante: no estás solo intentando “arreglar la relación”, sino entendiendo cómo te relacionas cuando te sientes emocionalmente insegura, no vista o frustrada. Ese tipo de insight suele aparecer en momentos de ruptura o crisis, cuando ya no se puede sostener la dinámica anterior y todo lo que estaba contenido sale de golpe.

A la vez, hay un punto delicado: estás en un momento de alta activación emocional, con culpa, alivio, duelo y claridad mezclados. En ese estado es fácil irse a extremos (“yo soy el problema” / “ya entendí todo”), cuando en realidad lo que suele estar pasando es más complejo y más gradual.

Lo que sí se ve claro es que hay un cambio de conciencia importante: pasar de reaccionar desde el resentimiento a intentar asumir responsabilidad sin negarte a ti misma. Eso no es pequeño, pero tampoco es el final del proceso, sino el inicio de algo más estable que todavía se está formando.

Si te sirve, un pequeño test de patrones relacionales y regulación emocional puede ayudarte a ordenar qué parte de esto es herida antigua, qué parte es dinámica de pareja y qué parte es aprendizaje real que quieres consolidar para no repetir ciclos.

Hay un desgaste emocional muy evidente en lo que estás describiendo, pero no solo por la depresión de tu pareja, sino por el lugar en el que tú has quedado dentro de todo esto. Estás intentando sostener una relación mientras al mismo tiempo te adaptas a su ausencia emocional, a sus ciclos de retirada y a la incertidumbre constante de cuándo vuelve a estar disponible.

Se percibe un esfuerzo grande por tu parte para no “molestar”, no cargar más, no empeorar su estado… y al mismo tiempo una necesidad muy humana de cercanía, contacto y estabilidad que no está siendo correspondida en este momento. Esa combinación suele generar una forma de soledad muy particular: estar en una relación y aun así sentirse sola de forma repetida.

También hay algo importante: estás conteniéndote mucho hacia fuera, pero por dentro el impacto ya se está acumulando (llanto nocturno, ansiedad, sensación de vacío). Eso suele indicar que no es solo una fase difícil, sino una sobrecarga emocional sostenida.

En estos casos, a veces ayuda mirar no solo qué le pasa a él, sino qué te está pasando a ti dentro de esta dinámica, porque el desgaste del acompañante puede volverse tan serio como el del propio proceso depresivo.

Si te sirve, un pequeño test de impacto emocional en vínculos con depresión puede ayudarte a aclarar cuánto de esto es acompañamiento sano y cuánto está empezando a afectar tu propio equilibrio interno.

It sounds like you're lying about your ages. Honestly, you sound like teenagers.

Judgemental sure but hateful ?? How because I say it would freak me out? And I call it a cult?

These comments make no sense. You have a right to be sus. Why couldn’t she just keep a straight story?

I think you should develop the strength & will to not cheat as opposed to the strength & will to move on— you got what you put into the relationship. Next time put better energy into the relationship.

He can't legally stop you, but it sounds like you're financially dependent on him and he can certainly decide to withdraw financial support or stop letting you live with him if he doesn't like how you're living your life. You'll need to decide if that's a risk and if taking this trip the way you want to take it is worth it.

I was indeed trying to spend most of my free time developing myself and using my mind in everything, but with her I felt something different, a kind of longing.

Yes, I don't speak English, so I used an online translation platform. The words might look a bit structured because of it, but the experience is mine.

People of all genders can be in the mood for sex with or without their partners around.  There's no reason for you to feel any differently about that than you do when he gets hungry or sleepy when you're not around. Biological drives happen when they happen.

You aren't happy and you know nothing substantial is going to change.  Stop wasting your time and his.

This hits way too close to home. Been through almost the exact same pattern with an ex and it's exhausting as hell

  
The brutal truth? Most people don't change unless they absolutely have to, and even then it's usually temporary. Your boyfriend probably does love you, but he's also gotten comfortable knowing that you'll stick around through the cycles. He's learned that he can coast until things get serious, then put in effort to fix it, then go back to coasting

  
I stayed in that cycle for way too long thinking "this time will be different" but it never was. The real kicker is when you realize you're basically training someone to only respect your boundaries when you threaten to leave. That's not sustainable for anyone

  
What worked for me was setting hard deadlines and actually following through. Not ultimatums exactly, but more like "I need to see consistent change for X months or I'm out" and meaning it. Most people will show you who they really are pretty quickly when they know you're serious about walking away

  
The hardest part is accepting that loving someone doesn't mean they'll change for you, even when they genuinely want to. Sometimes people just are who they are and no amount of conversations will stick long-term

Yes, I think you are right🙂‍↕️

Wow you are so overbearing. Three months is nothing, and not sure why you have so much claim to knowing what she’s doing all the time.

if she was ur only friend and u weren't hers, it could also be that she felt like u demanded more of her attention than her other friends bc of availability and it got too much for her. 

talking for hours everyday with someone who isn't a long time best friend or someone u are dating can come across rly intense, especially at 17. 

if u find it hard to make other friends, maybe find an outlet that u can also do solo, so u are spreading ur energy between different things and keeping busy! there are also community type social activities that cater to introverts now, or for introverts to find their extroverts etc. 

u are 17 and still v young and thankfully u seem reflective on urself and ur actions - i personally found most of my solid friends after high school, so dw u got time to learn how to attract the type of friends u want to spend time with and who equally want to spend that time with u. :)

Hi OP - I want to help but your post is very long and hard to follow. What I will say is that my dad sounds very similar to yours. He is diabetic as well and was diagnosed with paranoia a few years ago. Thinks me and my mom are trying to poison him. Has a host of medical issues that could kill him at any moment but won’t listen to the doctors on how to treat it - thinks they will make him worse. 

He is mentally and physically incapable of running his own life, in my opinion. Unfortunately I live in a state where it’s not easy to force guardianship over an adult. You are in New England so not where I live. I would recommend looking into forcing a psyche evaluation (we had to get a mental health warrant to get ours done) and then seeing if someone might be able to be named as his guardian and be able to direct the care he needs.

I’d be suspicious too, stand your ground. It’s VERY odd that she can’t give you a straight answer. You’re not in the wrong for feeling suspicious or for pushing her on it.

Not sure how old your kids are, but if comparable ages to mine (5) id love to be friends.

We actually had conversations today / yesterday about consequences,  and the best

" why do I need to do my letters?"
" so you can learn how to read"
" but why "

Urg.

you interrogated her like she was in police station man. maybe she just didn't want to explain every small detail about her morning and you kept pushing until she got frustrated. 

  
people change their story sometimes when they feel cornered, doesn't always mean they're cheating. could be she was embarrassed about something stupid or just got tired of the twenty questions.

She’s respecting her friend’s request.  In this situation, you are not a relevant party.  You are not going on this trip.  You don’t need to know any details about this trip.  

You already know she is going AND that she promised not to talk about the trip.  You have nothing to gain by continually asking about the trip except backing her into a corner and forcing her to lie more and/or be annoyed by your persistance. Seems you’re just grasping any topic to keep talking with your crush and not considering that it might be invasive.  Allow her some privacy.  This isn’t about YOU, though you’re making it personal by intentionally trying to dig further into the topic.

Okay, so she was just covering for her friend, then?

I am so confused, why was it so important for you to know about her breakfast? Is she not allowed to do things without you?

I understand that it is a bit weird that she wasn’t being very forthcoming but frankly, if a guy I had been seeing for just 3 months, started interrogating me because I told him I had already eaten, I’d be annoyed enough to not want to give him a straight answer either

Do you have friends you go out with alone (without him)?

Sometimes a lie isn't painful because of what it hides, but because it makes you question whether the honesty you trusted was ever really there.

I am not offended, I find it judgmental and hateful, regardless if whether op is real or not

Is this a serious question? What do you think he did when he was single and why do you think it’s different now? What’s he meant to do if he’s working from home or you’re on a business trip or whatever? Bloke’s not a priest, he’s just a regular guy doing regular guy things.

Healing starts when you realize their time with other people is not evidence that you're being left behind, it's evidence that they're choosing you even while having a full life of their own.

The other girl is my cousin and she may be afraid that I may tell her parents or ruin the plan something like that

Yes I do, but seriously why are you so offended by my opinion? OP hasn’t even made one reply so it’s most likely rage bait.

I know of happy marriages that began with much less fancy proposals. Did he propose with love? Did he sound genuine in wanting to spend the rest of his life with you? Those are the things that matter, not the physical environment. 

I hear what you are saying about the disappointment that the proposal came after an argument, though. Like other commenters have pointed out, it is kind of problematic that you two are at the point of constant bickering so early in a relationship. That does not bode well for your future, and honestly I don't think it means you're ready to be married.

See a therapist, u might have some deeper issues and have anxious attachment. Generally, the emotional support in your childhood was not good so you dont really feel good about yourself and there might be some addictions in your life can make this anxiety much worse. So basically you have to take CBT, as it will not only show up as a negative experience in relationship but also at work your fears and limiting beliefs will cook you

Yaa lots of things had happened couldn’t include all the small details

Does the other girl have any reason to tell her not to tell you and then tell you herself? She seems to be the one behaving oddly here.

Their brains are cooked

Do you even understand the definition of a cult ?

Yeah it was years until I found out, which feels extra shitty because I wish I would have known before and dealt with it immediately. 

His whole thing was that since it was so long ago and since we had just gotten back together he was immature and that behavior was coming from an “understandably” noncommittal place but wasn’t technically cheating so it’s somehow not worth taking accountability for?

You like someone who doesn't want to be honest with you.

Nobody has useful advice for you at this point.

Just pick out an answer closest to whatever you want and go with that.

Take a step back and breathe. 
Your marriage will not be defined by the pretty pictures, but rather by the love you have for one another and the way you both show up for the other person. 

From your story, it sounds like your fiancé proposed in a moment of vulnerability- you were both bickering and he showed up with love and commitment. 

I understand being upset at not having a picture of the perfect moment- maybe you guys can have an engagement photo shoot in a place of your choosing instead?

I like her, and now she is not going just to prove that she was not involved in the initial plans of the trip and knows nothing about it but her friend has already told me everything and showed me chats as well

sorry I’m not reading all that BUT OP your dad needs to get evaluated for a UTI as soon as possible. even in men, seniors, a UTI is one of the top reasons for sudden out of nowhere unexplained dramatic behaviors changes. tell him whatever you need to tell him to get him to the clinic. but he desperately needs a check on his urine. especially being a diabetic as I think I saw you mention?

you can confirm this info on any reputable medical website.

This guy sounds like a keeper. OP sounds like someone who ruminates on things so much even good things become bad with time. Something to work on.

Speaking from the POV of marriage, and divorce: real long-term relationships have lots of small moments. I had an ex gf who, if you asked her the #1 favorite moment for her of our multi-year relationship, would tell you it was when I grabbed her spontaneously as we passed a busker playing on the side of the Thames and danced with her for a few bars under the street light. I have another ex gf, possibly (probably) the love of my life, who collected so many small moments with it would be difficult to pick just one (from walking side by side at the shoreline watching our feet in the sand, to her unerring ability to find rainbows around us with eerie frequency, to browsing a shop and putting on little bunny ears and scrunching up her nose like a rabbit, etc).

I find the hotel room proposal rather sweet, and the weekend getaway a great way to celebrate being engaged. I’m sad OP is so focused on the negative she’s ignoring this amazing relationship in front of her.

If youre talking to someone for 4-6 hours daily and sending good morning and good night texts you should be dating and probably in the initial stages of falling for each other.

That level of communication and support for a friend is just not sustainable long term.

It sounds like you need to diversify your friends so you can get what you need without putting too much pressure on one or two people.

I get it, Im lonely most of the time, but I try really hard not to make that other people's problems, its just my current life stage (single mum)

Are they being paid for their performance, or of a school? It doesn’t seem like it. They  are just a bunch of people in the forest who call themselves a group aka cult lol
It’s weird behaviour. if my husband came home and told me he was in a forest dancing, rolling, pressing cuddling and stroking someone else hair that would freak me the fuck out. I would have serious concerns about his mental health

I feel there's a bunch of information missing

It's not about the photo, it's about the memory. I wouldn't have wanted photos of it happening, happy with selfies of us afterwards but that would've been it. I just wanted a memory that was dear to us... out in the open as opposed to in a hotel that we don't remember the name of after an argument.

The other girl told her not to tell me, I talked to that girl and she told me everything

it is helpful for me to be told my perspective is valid after being directly told by him **(and indirectly his therapist)** that it wasn’t.

 By *indirectly,* do you mean your lying hypocrite of a boyfriend told you what his therapist said? 

Babe, he's already proven he's a liar.

How\* she left: 

    I support her in that decision, her leaving is not my issue, it’s how she did it.

Me being overwhelmed with studies myself I had to prioritise myself, as she is doing now. Nothing wrong with that.

Gently, the proposal is not the problem.  

The squabble about him leaving the room to cool off and you crying a lot about it - thats the problem. 

What is going on here ? It seems as though , even in the better hotel or perfect scenery, you pretty much nailed on would have found another reason to be upset and argue. 

What caused lots of crying and squabbling over a 5 minute departure from the hotel room?

You're thinking too much in the context of social media. If you love somebody and want to marry them, does it really matter how the proposal happens? Is it really that important to capture the moment in a beautiful photo? Who would that photo be for anyway - would it be for you to keep forever or to post online immediately? From what you are saying, it definitely sounds like the latter.

Let me be blunt You are complete pushover bro she is literally kinda taking 100% from you and giving 10% I know you don't wana measure it but that's the reality you won't feel these things when you are both doing efforts by heart you won't even have these things in your mind and the things I really don't like hear when she sent you a paragraph like hell you are bestfriend ok so she should understand her friends difficulty and those comments are inappropriate you have done good job atleast once so congrats you have guts to speak so I would recommend to you just leave her because let's say you were not mature earlier now you are mature and she is doing same mistake so she isn't worth wasting arguing ,she also has that stupid bf u know two stupid people together so u can imagine so I should strongly suggest you take your side don't hurt yourself more now and it's life this can happen to anyone and if you have more questions feel free to write

How long after getting back together did you find this out? From the sounds of it, it’s been years?

If she's choosing to lie, why are you choosing to chase?

People aren't supposed to rehabilitate a prospective partner.

If you don't merit honesty from her, your chances are limited to have anything positive happen.

Irritating and she's lying to you for no apparent reason? Just move along

is there any particular reason you get horny even when your partner is not at home?

Because biology is a thing

So um it’s pretty normal for adults to just get horny  due to hormones in their body. Women experience this too actually even if it’s less stereotypical than dudes getting horny. Different cultures deal with this differently but ipeople get horny in every culture.

Right? Is OP implying that women or maybe just her only get horny when around their partners?

To consume porn while in a relationship is totally normal - but I understand that this is a controvertial take 

What ever - open communication is always the key

Everything you wrote resonated with what I've always felt as well. Maybe take that cap off and use your power of pretending by acting like that doesn't bother you or like you're not afraid of people's reactions. I have no idea how it feels to not work for love or acceptance. I've been trying not to and have found that most everyone around me is suddenly not interested in my friendship once I stopped doing things for them. 
I don't have much advice other than get angry about what you went through and choose your friends and lovers carefully.

... Is there any particular reason *you* get horny even when your partner isn't home? Men are literally people... just like women...

But it IS in a contact improv group. That is an artistic/dance group. 

But honestly even if it wasn't, what is wrong with people doing what makes them happy and comfortable. As far as we know there is no guru or dogma, it's not a cult, they are consenting. Like do you really need to compare them to a "fucking" cult and call them creepy ? 

Do you find it ok to insult people just because what they like doing is different from your habitual norm ? 

And yes I know a lot of adult people who do this kind of stuff because it's fun and it makes them happy. People hating on others for enjoying themselves is baffling to me

I’m glad you told her and that she isn’t blaming you. I wish you all (except Paul) the best.

I am so happy it all worked out. Paul is...an idiot. He lied to both of you till the very end and I am glad you are over him. 

I will say, stop making assumptions about Vic and her feelings regarding you and the situation. Perhaps what she wants is the support of her friend, who was also betrayed by Paul. Maybe she doesn't want space from you but actually wants you around. As shitty as Paul is/was, this is someone she loved for a long time and she has now lost him. Don't make her lose you and your friendship on top of that. This may actually bring you guys closer! And who knows, you may become SILs (😉).

If YOU need space, or need/want to move out for yourself, that's completely okay. But don't do it because you ASSUME that's what Vic wants or needs.

have you been talking to chatgpt?

Sometimes regret always comes late. If you had thought it through, avoiding the wrong decision would have saved you all these therapies and a happy relationship.

Unfortunately there is no ‘Back’ button.

The main issue is that the proposal event didn't quite go to plan and it's bugging me.

and there aren't really any beautiful photos, and I'm embarrassed... it feels like a missed opportunity.

My fiancé is fine with it but it's grating on me. 

Give him the ring back. Let him find someone who will be excited about marrying him rather than upset about how the proposal went. He deserves better.

if you both want to be truly spiritual then id recommend attending church together, not just doing the “buddhist-lite” things that are popular.

You have posted this before, and there is not a magical new pool of people on Reddit who will suddenly tell you that it’s reasonable to crash out over this.

But if you can’t let it go, maybe find a therapist who can help you reframe this for yourself?

I'm in New England, USA.

you mentioned how your assumptions of how Vic would feel/react to this situation made it so you kept things from her, but you’re still assuming how she feels and are acting based on that rather than what she’s telling you. if you’re distancing yourself because that’s what you need and feel guilty, then totally fine, but don’t do it because you think that’s what she needs

she already told you what she needs, and that’s your friendship and support. she just went through a breakup and found out her boyfriend had feelings for someone else. would you just abandon her if you weren’t involved? 

i think you’d be a bad friend if you moved out without talking to her about moving out first. you should have another conversation, help her go through the breakup if that’s what she tells you she needs, and discuss housing plans. you’re kind of just focusing on your own feelings of guilt/shame, when you’ve done nothing wrong. you can give her the option to distance herself if that’s what you both want, but right now you’re doing things despite her telling you she wants the opposite and she wants to continue your friendship

Put it all together. Adults in a forest,  the “pressing” again not sure that that means.  The touching, the dancing, rolling, cuddling and stoking each others hair. Seriously that sounds like normal behaviour to you? If a artist is in a performance or play, ok that makes sense. But a bunch of people, not in any type of performance behaving in that way is abnormal. And would freak most people out

That stood out to me as well. If a couple has been together for <2 years and is already in the “constant bickering” stage where you can’t help but ragebait each other on a daily basis, it’s not time to get married - it’s time to pull the plug.

she’d always manage to calm me down. I however couldn’t return the favour, not because I didn’t want to, I just don’t possess that type of patience

good for her then. you say she's cold, she's breaking up with you. she's not cowardly, she's breaking up with you. she doesn't have to be concerned with anything concerning you any longer.

what's all this for, OP? get a diary if you want to vent. you're going to need to learn to calm yourself down from now on.

A proposal right after an argument isn't something I would want either, but until you two sort out your relationship problems, the engagement isn't a good idea. Perhaps take off the ring and say let's do this properly once we're in a better place.

A lot of issues first one if watching porn the destroyed him and scrolling the preain damage he should be focusing in you if is a real man to have real wife and if you checking in reddit sub dead  in bedroom alot of problem talking about

Well, it definitely is. He lied and cheated, theres no defending that.

Are you even romantically interested in him?

Reality check: A real relationship isn't a photo-Op. It's being vulnerable with each other. Realizing that despite certain differences, you care enough about each other to work through it and meet each other on the other side. That's what your guy recognized and that's what speaks to his heart. The fact that you would want to trade this for a better photo opportunity, oh boy... 

Stop trying to live your life for the Instagram reels and appreciate the reality? Probably easier said than done, given your post, so I'd start with therapy.

Social media has ruined us as a society. Do you care about the man and want to spend the rest of your life with him? Or do you care more about how people view your life?

Invest in yourself now, instead of age 40 . Its way better

Sorry but only people in cults dance ? Hug ? Go in forests ? Play ? Like, have you met actual people ?  
  
Lots of people do these things. People in arts, theatre, dancing, people from cultures who are more comfortable with physical touch, a lot of girls as well are more affectionate etc. I know plenty of people who do these things, and none of them are in any cults or are "creepy"

So basically just go bald for a time and do what you usually do i basically do some hard things to get rid of that fear or make it small i rember first i care lot about my clothing sense but now idc and I noticed no one care even if someone care idc (like if they are negative about that)so you have to face that insecurity that's it

Didn’t you post this yesterday?

Being married isn’t about everything prefect. I really hope this is the worst thing that happens in your marriage because the way you’ve responded to it is so over the top.

People would love to be able to share time with a loved one. Are you even happy to be together? All I can think of is the Kim kardashian meme.

People are dying Kim. Get over it.

I am an introvert by nature and find it very difficult to make friends; this was actually an unusual case I encountered by chance.

You make a more concerted effort to find the kind of people you fit in with.

You make an effort to stay in contact with your friends and family abroad.

You go volunteering so you can feel useful and good about yourself.

You consider tuning in to the radio stations from back home so you still feel connected to there.

I complained like you did for the first five years after moving. Then shit hit the fan and we broke up and I couldn't go back home. Once I was truly alone, I realized how unkind it was that I had made my ex responsible for so much of my needs. 

It takes a village regardless how old you are. My therapist's position was that if your life depended on it, you'd figure out real quick.

Today, I have lots of acquaintances and a small group of friends. I go out on my own a lot, and make a commitment to talk to at least 1 new person whenever I do. 

I check out things like hiking, run/walks, going to the park, skateboarding lessons, clean ups, the movies, birdwatching, paint and sips, crochet meetups, potlucks, the sauna, museums, poetry events, art exhibits, small live music events, the beach, cafes, craft markets, farmer's markets, film screenings, public lectures hosted by the local uni, book club, pop up estate sales/thrifting, vision board activities,  public debates... I go whether I have company or not.

The people I know who aren't local but are the most successful at making friends, got here and started organizing events/activities themselves.

I feel like I read this yesterday lol

You two don’t sound ready to be married with all the fights.  

Now you aren’t satisfied with how he proposed - because as you mentioned that you commonly bicker - you continued that and he responded by continuing with the bickering then gave you the proposal.

Think about it.  You are complaining about getting proposed to.  Does it really matter how he proposed?

At 17 actively make many friends.

Id actually guess she distanced herself from you because she wanted more than friends and you were not making a move.

You shouldn't be obsessed with just one person. Join some clubs, go out have fun.

As a 17-year-old, I'm supposed to have the opportunity to become attached to someone who isn't in an intimate relationship, for example, so that she can distance herself when she senses my attachment to her.

I don’t want to upset my father

Then he can make you do whatever he wants by telling you it would upset him if you didn’t. 

It is not fair or reasonable for him to make rules for you, an adult, to follow in your own life. He may have the *power* to treat you unfairly and unreasonably if you’re dependent on him for finances, housing, education, support etc. if you don’t think he’d literally cut you off from support you can’t afford to lose, your best move is to *tell him no* and let him be upset about it.

Being too clingy is absolutely a reason to stop talking to people.

In my situation , im married and have couple friends. The couple is scared of reaching out to us too frequently for this exact reason ( they openly told us) They've had other people ghost them for being too clingy in the past. We are all almost 40 years old.

Because that’s something people in cults do lol. What well rounded adults act the way he’s describing?

Is this really a sufficient reason for her to abandon me or stop talking to me?!

ik I'm a kid, but I drink a bit too, my parents allow me to get one glass of wine or beer on my btd, and even after that, being a 11 year old child, I am fully ok, and that woman just needs to stop judging ppls, and btw, just give her a taste of her own medicine, then she will definitely stop : )

In your mind you may not be showing attachment , but sending good morning / good night messages is attachment.

I think we all have moments that we’ve built up and when the reality doesn’t match them it’s hard to let go of the dream. 

For me, I’d think about whether the scenario was the dream or the guy - because you have a man who tried to give you what you wanted, and when you got emotional and both of you needed some love and reassurance, you both got it. 

Was it in the most beautiful location possible? No. But it was a vulnerable, emotional moment and he proposed and you accepted. Why are the surroundings more important than that? I’m not asking to judge, but to give you something to focus on. Rewrite the story in your head and focus on the fact that this man planned everything and threw it all out the window when he felt like you needed to know how deeply he loves you. Focus on the good and the rest will fall away.

I'm not upset about the photo ops, I'm upset that it didn't happen in the hotel grounds/ on a hike as opposed to in a dingy hotel room on the first night. I saw the level of thought he put into it. It's just because the lovely hotel was booked up on the Friday that we had to stay somewhere else initially. I know that if we'd just checked in to the nice place on the Saturday this wouldn't have happened/ if I wasn't due on my period. I couldn't keep quiet in the moment and am beating myself up for it now.

I don't show my attachment to her and I act normally, but when she disappears or something like that, I become genuinely scared and suspicious, and I can't go on with my day without her.

I was always a tomboy or guyish as you put it (love that😂) and suddenly started dressing a bit more like a girl. Its made me a bit more confident and honestly? I was figuring out me. Im 28 now and I dress comfortably a lot of the time now, so sometimes it's a bjt more fem or sometimes guyish. She might be the same way eventually. What you have to decide is if this is a deal breaker for you, and if so, why?

I'm so sorry you're going through this. It sounds terrifying. Where are you living? It can help give an idea what help may be available. And you do need help, this has escalated past a family fix level.

My big worry is that he's suffering from some sort of psychosis of he's saying things like he's God on earth. The paranoia and inability to discern reality after watching videos feeds into this concern. If this is the case he can't be reasoned with, his ONLY chance of improvement is getting medical help. Either through GP or emergency services he needs to be assessed by a mental health professional. They'll be able to discern if:

1)he's mentally unwell due to psychiatric causes and if it's severe enough that they need to treat him even without his consent

2)he's delirious and seeming mentally unwell because of poorly controlled physical health. In this case he may deemed to not have the capacity to refuse treatment and getting on top of his diabetes as an inpatient may lead to him getting better mentally. There's meditation that can help dementia if that's the issue or at least you'll know what you're dealing with and can start planning around it accordingly. 

3)he's actually got capacity and has chosen with a sound mind to fling himself down the conspiracy theory well. If this is the case you'll have to contend with broken trust but if he's already in this deep and become so nasty it doesn't sound like you can reason him into caring for himself better and trusting people anyway. You can put your time and energy into looking after your mum. People are allowed to make unwise decisions. 

But the most dangerous thing at the moment is that you don't know what's happening. Don't be put off by him refusing help, you'll feel worse if it's something potentially treatable.

Dude what a complete disaster but also props to Vic for handling that like an absolute champion. Paul really thought he was the main character in some twisted love triangle where he gets to "choose" between two amazing women who never asked to be part of his delusional competition

  
The part where he said Vic would "win" if it was about love but he doesn't have romantic feelings for her anymore made me physically recoil. Like bro you're talking about actual human beings with feelings, not collecting pokemon cards. And then having the nerve to act like he was doing everyone a favor by "fulfilling his obligation" to date Vic? I can't even wrap my head around that level of narcissism

  
You and Vic both dodged a massive bullet here. This guy was never gonna be capable of a healthy relationship with either of you because he clearly sees women as objects in his personal drama rather than actual people. The fact that he lied about the timeline too shows he knew exactly how manipulative he was being

  
Moving out for now seems smart - not because you did anything wrong but because you both need space to process this mess without constantly being reminded of it. Vic sounds like she'll still be your friend when the dust settles, she just needs time to heal from dating someone who was apparently using her as a consolation prize while pining after her roommate

Could be too clingy.  Thats a big reason ppl leave.

I mean, whether he *can* micromanage you is pretty much up to you? He *shouldn't*, but that's not the same thing.

The thing about being a legal adult is that you can do whatever you want, and/but, in exchange for that freedom you will also experience the real life consequences of whatever you choose to do. For example, you *can* just tell him to piss off and you'll do whatever you like, which you're legally entitled to do! And if you do that he might decide he's no longer interested in letting you live in his house for free, which he's legally entitled to do. (Or stop paying your college tuition or something like that, if that's a live concern.) It's *entirely your decision* whether those risks are worth getting to arrange your vacation the way you'd like, or you'd on net prefer to earn more resources for beginning your adult life on a strong financial footing by being compliant with his rules. Either decision is reasonable, but you should be making it in a clear-eyed understanding that that's what you're doing. Nobody else is deciding it for you.

(You can also, of course, in the grand spirit of teenagers everywhere with shitty helicopter parents, lie, but this is also known to sometimes have consequences, and I would not recommend it unless you think there's a serious risk he'll get violent, in which case lie your teeth off until you live in another state at an address he doesn't know.)

You are being judgmental about people doing something harmless that makes them happy. 

What is wrong with dancing, hugging, being playful or being in a forest ? I am honestly confused

the guy literally had a whole romantic weekend planned with a lake suite and boat rides but because you had a moment of vulnerability in the hotel room first, now you're upset about photo ops?

The point is my own ability to validate my own perspective, not to convince him to do anything. Whether I decide this is reason enough to call it is ultimately my choice. 
But it is helpful for me to be told my perspective is valid after being directly told by him (and indirectly his therapist) that it wasn’t.

Also don’t go on the internet looking for advice that’s what i did and it worsened it, because everyone will tell you that you’ve got porn induced erectile dysfunction, or a week pelvic floor or not enough testosterone. This isn’t the case man it just comes down to nerves when your anxious your body goes into a state of survival mode and that’s why you can’t relax and maintain an erection. So just remember don’t rush things dude and do what makes you happy in the bedroom

From your description, your boyfriend is in denial about his childhood, to the extent he has blocked it out.  What does that tell you?  How can you trust that he has cut contact with his brother?  His family are a dysfunctional nightmare which he is unable to process.  The likelihood of you having a stable relationship with him is not good.  Can you imagine bringing children into this scenario?  Just don't risk it.

He also talked about dancing and being “pressed” whatever that means and people rolling around. And didn’t he say something about being in a forest. This does not sound like normal adult behaviour

Ahahahaha sorry you are now dating an insurance sales guy. That is very funny.

It’s absolutely not acceptable, but my point is that it doesn’t matter if every single Reddit user agrees with you. He obviously doesn’t, and trying to force someone to care about your feelings and own up toothier mistakes is pointless. Either accept that this is how he moves through the world, or don’t.

I didn't say it was easily achievable or that he could not benefit from therapy. 
Simply that labelling his needs as "not normal" seems unwise

What are you trying to argue about ?

Try volunteering. Classes are a good start but it's not as involved and you can easily attend a class without actually doing any socializing. Volunteering, however, can be very fulfilling. It gives you the opportunity to connect with people with similar interests and also to take ownership of tasks and responsibilities. Highly recommend volunteering. 

Another option would be internships. Since they would likely be unpaid, it wouldn't require the long hours/commitment of an actual job. 

It's only been a few months. If you want to really give it a shot, you have to embrace the new country and culture. Find things you do like about it and go all in on those things. Maybe an expat community would be a group to look for as well. 

You've gotta put on your big girl pants and actively make an effort to find joy and connection in your new country. Even if you end up leaving, at least give it a year or two of putting in consistent and persistent effort. Then you can at least always know you gave it the best chance. 

The way you feel now is normal for the vast majority of immigrants. You just have to decide you WILL enjoy it and go find how. I know you can do it.

I use to struggle with this so badly bro and it can only be solved when you truly learn to just relax and love yourself. I use to sleep about with quite a few women and I’d never have this issue then bang one day I went to sleep with a girl who I fancied so so much and it wouldn’t work cos I cared to much about giving her a good time and put to much pressure on myself. The best way I learnt to deal with this is just be open and truthful with your partner let her know it might not work but your willing to try and if it doesn’t work don’t beat your self up have a joke about it laugh it of. 

Don’t let yourself get in your own head I remember I use to be chilling out with her and thinking in my head what if it doesn’t work? Stop making such a big deal about it and I promise things get better I panicked and worried so much that I ended up convincing myself I was 19 with erectyle dysfunction 😆

This is scientific medical advice but here’s some ways I got over it. Go out for a few drinks with your partner and go back to yours after you feel more confident and you’re not in your own head it makes it easier and you forget about your ‘problem’ . I feel like once you first have sex the issue goes away because you know you can do it.

Also find out what you like in bed my problem was not so much it not working but what I don’t like this one girl would always try to wank me of and it would go soft and I thought that was my issue and it wasn’t working. I then later realised that being wanked of doesn’t work for me so now later on in life I’ve been with numerous women and I don’t let them touch it and I’ve never had a problem staying hard again

I actually just edited the post to include a specific request for advice and a TL;DR, so hopefully that satisfies the rules and the mods keep it up! Thank you so much for your kindness and for helping me understand how this sub works.

Definitely this. Or, crazy idea, maybe OP should focus on the all consuming task of growing a baby, giving birth to said baby, and recovering from these two major events, with nothing but support from her partner?

And *he* can masturbate and play with toys, and experiment on his own, between diaper changes, cooking, night feedings and cleaning. Bonus points for going to therapy and working through why he thinks his need to «switch things up» is even remotely relevant right now? 

And then, maybe a year from now they can work on rebuilding trust and desire in couples counseling.

OP has at least two problems. One is that his wife is not ok with the level of physical contact he wants with friends. The second is he doesn't currently have any friends that can provide what he wants, and he doesn't even know how to find them. His needs sound pretty unachievable to me, and he said he can't live without it. Maybe there's no need to label it as abnormal, but sounds to me like OP needs to discuss this in therapy.

ORIGINAL POST

I hooked up with the love of my roommate’s life and then got in a relationship with her brother. what the hell do I do

Throwaway because I have friends who follow me on reddit and I just can’t deal with talking about this situation irl anymore.

The title sounds so awful it’s making my stomach cramp, but please hear me out.

I (26F) recently moved to a different country for my master’s programme. It’s been an adjustment but I’ve made a lot of interesting friends and I feel like I’ve really grown into myself after distancing myself from my extremely loving, but suffocating family. I moved into this lovely place during my second semester. It’s in a great location and the rent’s decent. But the best part of living here has undoubtedly been my roommate (27F). Let’s call her Vic. She’s one of the loveliest people I’ve ever met, so open and sweet and fun-loving. We fell into a really deep friendship almost immediately. She also immediately welcomed me into her friend group (which includes her twin brother, more on him in a while) who are all lovely and kind as well. This is where the problem starts.

I met this guy while on my way back to the house a few weeks after I moved in. We made eye contact and I swear I felt something shift, as corny as it sounds. We realised we were walking in the same direction and he quickly walked in front of me (which I later learned was because he didn’t want me to feel like he was following me home). He actually ended up just walking into the house ahead of me, and this is where I learnt that he (M27), let’s call him Paul, and Vic were close friends. This is the extremely important part. Vic and Paul always acted completely platonically in front of me. Vic, by then, had introduced me to a ton of her male friends and she didn’t act any differently towards them. Vic also hooked up with someone else during the time I had been there so this all seemed normal to me.

Fast forward a few months. I’m completely in love with Paul. Or I think I am. We both have a special interest in music so we attended a lot of live music events together and record covers (he plays guitar and I sing). Stuff like that. Most of the time, it’s completely platonic, but there were a few times in between where we’d have these… moments. Some important information: I’m extremely romantically inexperienced. Growing up in a sheltered family and as a plus sized woman, really made me doubt myself in this area. I had trouble believing anyone would be genuinely interested in me, even though I’m somewhat aware that I’ve grown into my looks. I still feel fundamentally unattractive.

So, anyway, even though we have these moments, I don’t really believe anything’s going to happen between us. I don’t bother telling anyone except my sister and a few friends back home. Then something changed. We had sex one night after a concert. I’m not a virgin, but sexual encounters have been few and far between, especially because I’ve never been in a relationship. I ended up crying because I’d never felt such a deep connection before and he was so tender with me. The next morning, he acted completely normal and I was too terrified to rock the boat. He ended up ghosting me for two weeks. By this point, I’d sobbed my eyes out to Vic about him but refused to reveal who the guy was because I didn’t want to cause complications. And, honestly, I felt so low, I genuinely believed they would choose each other over me because she hadn’t known me that long. I really wish I had been transparent.

At the end of the two weeks, Vic was having a dinner party and Paul showed up early. He looked regretful but not too bad overall. Meanwhile, I was a fucking mess. I tried not to show my anger at him and behave normally but it didn’t matter because Vic and Paul announced that they were FINALLY officially together that same night. I was so shell-shocked, I felt numb.

Her twin brother, let’s call him Josh, casually remarked that he never thought they’d actually get their heads out of their asses and start dating. Everyone laughs except me. All this is news to me because neither of them had never even hinted to me about her long and abiding feelings for him. Apparently their getting together was such a foregone conclusion that the group just never mentioned it anymore.

I learnt from Josh that night that they’d been on the verge of getting together in high school but mutually decided that they were too young and wanted to play the field before settling down with each other. Which, I guess, meant they’d decided it was time. I honestly have no clue how I held it together. I managed to corner Paul later and confronted him. I was really pissed at him but he sort of turned it around on me. He told me that he never made me promises and that he hadn’t actually done anything wrong because Vic had also been having flings around the same time. Both of these things are true, but I genuinely felt like we had something deeper than sex. He apologised for leading me on but denied ever feeling that way. He even offered to tell Vic about it. Here’s where I think I fucked up again.

My self-esteem had taken such a beating by this point that I felt too humiliated to tell anyone else. Vic had seen me break down over “the love of her life” just recently. I was so scared that she’d hate me or pity me and I’d lose her friendship over what I believed was just me being inexperienced and overreacting over a one night stand. I told him we should just pretend nothing happened and that I couldn’t spend time with him alone anymore. He seemed upset but understanding.

Fast forward again several weeks. I had coursework so I really buckled down and shut myself off from everyone. It worked out well because I didn’t have to face Vic and Paul being in love in front of me. I want to clarify that I had no ill feelings towards either of them at this point. I just felt more self-hatred and self-pity and I wanted so badly to move on. Which leads me Josh.

Josh is a consummate flirt. He hits on people non-discriminately and has a lot of casual sex. He’s always flirted with me, but I assumed it was just how he acted with everyone, so I didn’t think much of it. One day he proposed to help “take my mind off things because I’d seemed so stressed lately”. His meaning was pretty clear. Now, I knew this would complicate things, but I just wanted to stop hurting. And honestly Paul and Vic seemed so happy and Josh was so unserious, I didn’t think anyone would notice or care. Long story short, we started hooking up.

Now, the sex with Josh was great and he’s such a funny and caring guy, I did genuinely start to get lost in him. We became exclusive and eventually decided. to give our relationship a real try. Vic was really excited for us. She told me she was happy to see her brother actually want to get serious with someone. I still had some reservations but I do have genuine feelings for him. At this point, I stopped thinking about Paul at all and was focused on my relationship with Josh.

The predicament I’m in today is that Paul has started acting really erratic about Josh. He warned me early on that Josh was a player and would end up cheating on me when we went public. This shocked me because he was friends with Josh too and everyone agreed that Josh was always upfront with people. I told him off and he initially apologised, but he’s been becoming increasingly surly and distant. Vic has confided in me about it. I have an instinct that it has something to do with me and Josh, but I’m having trouble trusting my gut because I got it so wrong the last time. I’m so guilty and pent up about this because I feel like I should tell her about the sex we had, but I could also be way off base and make things weird between us. Plus, it’s been so long that I think she would resent me for hiding things from her. And now I have Josh to worry about. We’ve been transparent about our past, but I still can’t bring myself to name names. I’m worried that telling the truth now will upend things. My sister and friends back home are divided about whether I should say anything. They’re saying I technically did nothing wrong because I cut things off once they got together. Some of them (including me) think I should have been truthful from the get-go. It’s just too late for that.

I’d really like an outsider’s perspective on this. Please don’t hold back and be honest. I feel like I can barely sleep for all the guilt I’m feeling and I feel like I’m jeopardising my relationships with both my roommate and boyfriend by being so secretive. Any advice would be appreciated.

tldr: I hooked up with my roommate’s current boyfriend before they got together and never told her. Now that I’m dating her brother, he’s been acting strangely. Should I be honest with her and my boyfriend?

edit: Thank you so much to everyone for weighing in! I can’t reply to everyone but I’ve read through all the comments and have considered all the wonderful advice you’ve provided. I think I’ve always know what I needed to do, but I needed the push from unbiased people. I’ve decided to tell Josh and Vic what happened. As many of you suggested, I’m telling Josh first. He’ll be levelheaded and will give me better insight into how I should broach the topic with Vic. I’m determined to do it as soon as I can in case I chicken out. If all goes well (or terribly) I’ll try to post an update. Bye for now!

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

No worries. Mods might delete or lock your post, but I hope they keep it up, it's nice to read something sweet here every now and then haha

It would if it was a sincere apology, and honestly after 7 years I know that him not giving me one now is a sign that if he did decide to apologize it would be sincere since he’s working on his people pleasing. 
I think he genuinely feels sorry for hurting me and lying but doesn’t feel like he did anything wrong by planning that hangout and the text message content which is what I’m feeling like I need accountability for. Wrote this post for validation/clarity of whether or not that is something that needs to be apologized for or whether it was acceptable behavior like he seems to think it was at the time.

Thank you so much for your kind words!

This is actually a great example of my point that people tend to underreport. OP has somebody in their life that is concerned about their alcohol usage. We only have OP's version of events, but they are potentially here seeking validation, as many posts on this subreddit. Doesnt mean OP is wrong, I am just posting here in the eventuality that this is an embelished story.

Btw alcohol dependency is a term that refers to the body adjusting its chemical composition expecting a regular alcohol intake. It isnt (meant as) a judgement, simply as a factual description of what happens when you regularly drink alcohol. You can decide for yourself if this applies to you, im not your boss :)

The above submission has been **removed** for the following reason:

* It is an update post without a link to the previous or original post.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the  wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Thank you for explaining that. I am completely new here and still learning how everything works and what the specific rules are. Appreciate you!

Yes in that case if we don't call it "not normal" I agree with you that most people who agreed to a monogamous relationship will not be okay with this. 

  
I do think it's worth having a proper conversation to see if they can see eye to eye, but yeah figuring things out with his wife comes first (before seeking these friendships I mean)

Yes this sounds judgmental. Equating non-sexual intimacy between friends with cults makes no sense, the defining features of cults are not the presence of touch in friendships. 

You may be uncomfortable with touch, that doesn't make people who like sharing touch with their friends "creepy". 

Publishing a shaming comment with hurtful words is not helpful for someone who already has desires that can be villified and mocked by society

I think you don't have to share that many details with your dad and the rest of your family about your dating life. For example, don't tell him that you want to go fly with him for support because the boyfriend is scared, just tell him you really want to go with him. You don't have to tell him anything about your dynamic or what you guys do when you're alone and if you feel like lying about something is going to make your life easier, then do that.

Just tell your dad that your boyfriend has his own place in his city, so you prefer to go there because it's more comfortable since you have your own space. If he keeps pressuring, just say that you think it's too early for him to meet your family, or just say "maybe another time" and try to change the conversation or find an excuse to leave.

You are 18. He cannot legally stop you from doing anything. He can mentally and emotionally coerce you to bend to his will, but it's really none of his business. Enjoy your vacation. Sounds like you're going to have to stand up to your father some time, might as well be now.

I completely agree that therapy can be an incredible tool for self-improvement and learning these skills. At the same time, I also find immense value in hearing real-world wisdom and shared experiences from people who are walking the same path.

never been interested in sex in the entire time we’ve been dating

Ok so why would anything change now? This is who she is.

talked about it even at the start of our relationship and she’s said that it’s not at all because of trauma but more of a disinterest of sex

She's literally telling you shes not interested in sex.

I don’t know if I can take another year without sex. As shallow as that may sound

Have we literally gotten to the point that sex even once a year is considered shallow? Leave her bro. I promise you'll find someone who is interested in sex and most importantly, compatible with you.

“Bro found the rarest Pokémon: a genuinely caring partner. 😭 But if one person needs sex to feel loved and the other genuinely doesn’t want it, nobody’s the bad guy—you're just trying to play two different games with one controller.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It appears to be a meta-post.  Please message the moderators your concerns. If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to its content to ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I'm kind of a tomboy myself.
My style changes every couple of years including sometimes wearing lots of skirts and dresses and then not touching them for years. 

My hairstyle also varied a lot during the last 15 years from a short pixie to a kind of short Bob. 

I used to put on make up in my twenties at least when going out, but I completely stopped by now (even for big events). 

I will NEVER be a girlie girl, but my femininity varies all the time from more to less. 

What I wanted to tell you: her wanting to be more feminine around her friends is an insecurity thing and it may pass and it also may change her style ect. Most likely she'll be more feminine for a while until she goes back to whatever is most comfortable for her. 
Just tell her, that you like her exactly how she is, eveb if it's not that feminine, because that's how she was, when you fell in love with her. 

My hubby likes me just the way I am and he likes my new styles and he loves me not wearing make up. It's also possible to be a tomboy and still somewhat feminine, she's most likely just finding herself

Thank you for clarifying. This is very sweet and I am happy you are able to be present and caring with your partner

A few years ago, we split up for a couple months

A while after getting back together, I went through his phone

This makes it sound like you went through his phone a long time ago. Maybe be more clear about the timeline here.

Either way, do you really want an apology from someone who doesn’t want to give you one? He doesn’t think what he did was wrong. He might agree to apologize to people please (which sounds like his MO), but would it honestly mean anything to you?

Sorry it all sounds creepy AF. Like some fucked up  cult or something. I’m not really a touchy feely person either, so maybe my personal feelings are making me judgemental. But yeah this just creeps me out. It makes me wonder if this post is rage bait.

Yeah, I get that... it's not 'weird, it's just not something most people can sign up for in a **monogamous** marriage without it getting complicated fast. Different needs is one thing, but compatibility still has to land somewhere in the middle.

It really sounds like you could benefit from seeking therapy for yourself.  Through that you can learn about active listening, dealing with day to day stressors, etc.

I think if you found the friends to have this with, it would be great. It is not very common in current western culture, so you might have a hard time finding like minded male friends. But it's possible, with time.

What seems more worrying is that there maybe seems to be some incompatibility there between what intimacy you wish to have with your friends, and what your wife is ok with. Maybe there needs to be serious discussions around this between you two ?

I didn’t find this out until I saw it in his phone. We’re working through it now but it happened a while ago.

You are completely right. I was indeed speaking about my partner and me specifically in that moment, but I also meant it in a broader sense. By noise, I mean the constant distractions of the modern world, the stress, the endless digital stimulation, the rush of daily life, and even our own internal egos always planning what to say next instead of just being present.

When I say 'we need to create some silence,' I mean slowing down enough to truly look at the person in front of us. In that silence, away from the chaos, we can actually hear and feel the deeper truth of a connection, whether it is joy, love, or even shared vulnerability. Sometimes, words and daily rush just distort what matters most.

it's certainly a little outside of the typical monogamous/hétéronomative norm, but I wouldn't say it's "not really normal". This person simply has very different needs from what their wife is comfortable with and there is definitely some serious incompatibility there.

I don't think calling it abnormal is wise though. It's absolutely fine to seek these types of friendships. It wouldn't be fine to force his wife to be ok with this if that's not something she's comfortable with !

He can if you let him. This is your family, and your responsibility to manage.

You weren’t wrong for wanting that when it all came to the surface. But you had the opportunity to leave, and you chose to stay. If you aren’t able to move on after that much time, I don’t think it’s a good idea to be in a relationship.

Thank you for the update. Im so sorry you and Vic went through all of that. Hugs.

I was also concerned that she said that her crying doesn't help the mood. Her crying in pain should mean it stops straight away.

Yeah I feel really similarly about most of this. Given it was a while ago and at the time we were getting back together, and he never actually slept with anyone while we were together, I would be willing to work with him on it. 
But the lack of total accountability is killing me and I don’t feel like I can go anywhere without it.

Honestly, you should probably just leave. This is an utter shit show. You’re young. You’ll find someone else. Unless you’re willing to stay and possibly to offer the younger sister a place to go when she’s 18, and unless he’s willing to go “no contact” with the brother and parents - which he’s not - you’d probably be better off leaving now while it’s reasonable to do so.

I don't even know siblings who force farts into the faces of each other. That's really unhinged for anyone, especially as an adult.

I think they asked because it's in the rules of the sub that you must be seeking advice and this post might not be following the sub guidelines

It's a detail but you said "what we feel inside is so beautiful", and it's great that you are experiencing this, but it's not true for everyone, and definitely not applicable to everyone (Maybe you were speaking of you and your partner specifically ? In which case I misunderstood your words)

  
Can you expand on what you mean by there is too much noise on this earth and we need to create some silence ?

The above submission has been **removed** because:

 * It contains an external url.  URLs are not allowed on /r/relationships.  You must remove the url/link.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.
 * If you're creating an update, please follow the rules in our wiki and sidebar that describe how to submit updates.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to the content to ensure that the submission confirms to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Thank you for saying this. Hearing that my reflections help you makes sharing this completely worth it. We are all figuring it out as we go, no matter our age.

I feel the same way you do and it’s why I’ve written off ever being monogamous. Its not that i need to be in a relationship with multiple people but I know 99% of people wouldnt accept friend cuddling and physical intimacy to the degree i enjoy it. (This is NOT me advising non-monogamy for you, just sharing how i cope) 

I dont have any advice sadly but its normal to want to touch others and a lot of people will tell you its not.

Thank you . 'Share a life together, don't edit two' resonates deeply with me. It’s a powerful reminder of what true partnership actually looks like.

It is real but I can appreciate skepticism on the internet around crazy stories. I guess the follow up is just, do people with bad childhoods not get to be in relationships till they’re 100% healed. Like I’m not even sure I believe that’s a thing cause childhood shapes us all pretty deeply. I guess then your thought is an ultimatum to either cut contact with all his other family too(already no contact with brother) or I break up with him?

The above submission has been **removed** because:

 * It contains an external url.  URLs are not allowed on /r/relationships.  You must remove the url/link.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.
 * If you're creating an update, please follow the rules in our wiki and sidebar that describe how to submit updates.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to the content to ensure that the submission confirms to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I understand completely. How to stand up there without being attacked about money (I've bought you a car, I need to fill gas, we do not have money for that, etc).

She is very keen for the apartment and she said that she will go with me or without me, that she does not care at all. Very rude behavior.

He did give a shit! Or he was trying to give it to poor OP over the phone. Completely disgusting.

Treat other people in your life like people, not a plan.

Share a life together, don't edit two.

Give space, accept space; don't take space.

Don't lie - don't "white lie", don't "kind of" lie. 

Never touch another person in anger or accept being touched in anger.

If someone insults their partner by design, they are now single.

That's what I've learned and shared.

For me, the secrecy is the biggest red flag. He didn't tell you he was going to go out with a "friend" to the museum, and he didn't tell you this was the reason he was changing the plan for your birthday.

And "we went on a date once, now we're just platonic friends, but also this is just us one-on-one and I'm going to keep this secret from you" doesn't fit any definition of "friend" that I've heard of.

I know the stereotypical reddit answer is always "break up, bomb the relationship!", but yeah...his behaviour, and his lack of remorse about it, really doesn't sound great from the outside.

he told me **very assertively** that he wanted things to be closed off 

Especially with fucking this.  So not only is he a liar, he's a hypocrite.

I honestly wouldn’t recommend reaching out. Asking whether he’s okay may feel caring, but in many cases it’s more about easing your own guilt than helping the other person. If you truly care about someone you’ve hurt, sometimes the kindest thing you can do is respect the peace they’ve built without you.

I had an ex do that to me and the timing couldn't have been worse. I ended up failing an important exam I had shortly afterwards.

How can you trust him when you know he’s not loyal or honest?

Yes, I am looking for advice and perspectives from others on how they successfully practice deep, active listening and emotional connection in their own long-term relationships, especially when daily life gets busy or stressful.

Not everything needs to be advice seeking man, this is good perspective from someone who actually lived through the long haul

  
Some of us are still figuring this stuff out in relationships and posts like these help more than you think

I honestly wouldn’t recommend reaching out. Asking whether he’s okay may feel caring, but in many cases it’s more about easing your own guilt than helping the other person. If you truly care about someone you’ve hurt, sometimes the kindest thing you can do is respect the peace they’ve built without you. I had an ex do that to me years after everything happened, and the timing couldn't have been worse. The contact affected me so much that I ended up failing an important exam I had shortly afterwards.

Is there a question seeking advice?

This is the most AI answer I've ever read I stg

You are interesting! Yes! Our society understands physical communication among women. This is the first time I heard from a man who likes harmless physical contact with other men the way you do.

Normal is what is normal to us, as long as no one feels unsafe.

Your wife may feel unsafe because you differ from other males.

You made me smile! I celebrate diversity!

If this is real, then there is no way forward in this relationship, to keep yourself safe.  Your boyfriend clearly has serious denial issues about his family.  It's easy to think you can separate a grown man off from his family, and just focus on your relationship with him, but the reality is different.  He's already told you he can't quite believe his brother has behaved atrociously to his sister.  This isn't going to change.  Your boyfriend won't change without extensive therapy over several years, even then there are no guarantees.  And in that time, his family will lead him, and you, a danse macabre.  That's if you stay with him.  You can't change his childhood, his parents or siblings.

Wanting hugs and affection from friends isn't weird, but, dude(!!!)… wanting people to stroke your hair, cuddle you, and frolic barefoot through the forest together is not really normal... your wife isn't insane for being uncomfortable with this.

No I don’t. Like I said there’s a lot going on here and I don’t know what to do. Last year I tried to breakup with him because I newly became a born again Christian and he is not, and I just didn’t think things would work out as my values have changed since we started dating. But it was a nightmare and went horribly. I didn’t handle things properly because I initiated the breakup spontaneously out of nowhere because I didn’t want to leave him but I felt I had to, and I felt if I didn’t just up and do it I never would. But my heart wasn’t in it and I still wanted to be with him. It wasn’t about our issues we have it was just about my changing values but he didn’t understand. It was over the phone and it was mess. I’m not going to get into it but he’s built his life around me now. I don’t think he feels like he has a lot of reason to live. And I love him and care about him a lot as a person but I feel alone a lot in our relationship and I feel like we both walk on eggshells because we know our relationship is on rocky ground but we don’t want it to blow up, but we don’t know how to handle our problems. I’m sorry this is a long rant, I just need to get it out

Cheating on someone for the reasons you named feels very much like avoidant behavior, as does maintaining a limerence for that person after the relationship ended. Therapy was definitely the best thing you could have done for yourself and I’m happy you’ve decide to put the time and effort into your growth. 

If you’ve apologized and taken accountability for your behavior entirely, there’s nothing else you can do. Especially if he was the one who made the decision to leave and not talk to you. 

If you do love this person, you should also respect that to love them right means to respect the choices that they are making for their own well being. To choose to leave someone you love after they cheat is a hard choice, but one that people typically make from a place of self respect. 

This might not be a popular take but if it wouldn’t be too violating for him and all you need to know is that he’s okay, it might be worth reaching out and asking him if he’s healed, showing up in that conversation with full accountability for your behavior as your own, without any underlying intentions of getting back together. If he asked you not to talk to him again however, then that needs to be respected. 

Moving on might just mean you still hold love and care for him, but also a knowing that you have hurt him too much to ever have a relationship with him and accepting that. And taking those lessons into your future relationships with people you will hopefully be better equipped to love respectfully.

check hormones, diet, any new medications, stopping medications, stress levels .......... honestly its a long laundry list of potential causes to his libido dropping off like that and its a little uncommon for someone his age to suddenly shut down like that. you need to see some real efforts out of him to match his promises to you. i also suspect this is a bit early for the honeymoon phase of the relationship to be over so he should probably talk to a doctor.

The testosterone check is good step but if he's still managing solo twice weekly then hormones might not be main issue here - maybe worth exploring if something changed in how comfortable he feels during intimacy or if work stress is affecting him more than he realizes.

5-7 drinks is a lot for one sitting

I mean that's only 3-4 glasses of wine at a restaurant, if that's their Special Occasion Binge then they're doing alright. 

I also wouldn't consider it an alcohol *dependency*, since there's nothing in the post to indicate they *need* to drink, have cravings, would experience withdrawals, or struggle to control the amount they drink. They also don't mention any negative consequences of their drinking, other than the annoying lectures.

Based on available evidence, I think you're likely projecting/overreacting here.

Ok it might need alot of fixing

Then why post this publically? If it isn't for anyone nust journal

Because for the most part, he’s a great person who has put a lot of energy and effort into to our relationship, and we share a lot together. I’m not wanting to call it with someone who means a lot to me in ways that cannot be described in a post specifically about a relationship conflict, albeit one that feels pretty significant to me.

The issue isn't even *really* the fart/poop stuff (although obviously a bit). The bigger issue is you said really clearly to stop and that you didn't like it...and he didn't give a shit. It was more important to him to make the "jokes" he wanted to make than to respect your feelings. And when you told him how you felt he hung up on you! Good riddance to him, you made the right call. Don't date someone who can't even *pretend* to give a shit about you.

I think you might be having a stroke.

Negative  that would just make it fake she knows , I don't type good and its not for anyone eles

You weren't there for her when she needed you, now you're upset at how she left you?

Let it go, for both your sakes.

What rambling nonsense is this? Do you even have a question?

I disagree. If someone is talking about a problem they have with me, I want to know. OPs “bf” can’t have a conversation with her about how he feels but he can complain about her behind her back? That’s not setting a very good foundation for a relationship. And then denying it? I think all of this is necessary for OP to know in order to move forward.

Oh my god. Your love is obviously very conditional. You love your when she’s dressed in a certain way. But not when she dresses in  a certain way. Do you even love her and why is this all about you ? Why are people not allowed to evolve while they are in a relationship with you? You’re insecure that a man would find her more attractive now that she’s turning feminine? How does that bother you exactly? It’s not supposed to bother you but it does. You’re the problem.

Please OP, it sounds like she is working on discovering who she is and having fun with fashion. Be very careful when/if you bring this up, you could completely shatter her confidence and that takes years to recover (if ever).

I'm not a fan of AI, but dude, run this through AI to clean up the spelling and grammar.

Do you want to walk on eggshells forever? I know 3.5 years is a long time, but it sounds like his attitude is getting worse. You deserve someone better

Not wrong - just gay

Have you ever considered that people of the opposite sex can just be friends?

Not trying to sound judgemental here, but why do you want to be inside this absolute mess of a relationship? This sounds exhausting to deal with at every single turn.

That is the grossest most disgusting thing ever. This is like a sibling relationship and not even a loving one, like a bullying one.

Being comfortable with your bodily functions around your partner is one thing, making crass, disgusting childish jokes is a whole other. Not being too sensitive at all

If she's not interested in sex but you want to have sex, means that there's a huge incompatibility.

Break up and find someone who is interested in sex like you.

This woman was a second woman he hadn’t slept with, but had been on a date with before. But yeah, I don’t love it.

Yeah maybe. I think he feels bad he can’t afford it. He’s not really the travel type, at least not out of the country. I know there’s things he’d like to explore in the country, but we travel out of the country a lot and I know he’s not interested in that. But I think he feels bad that he can’t afford it. I think he feels he should be further in life at this age career wise. But I guess I’m just tired of the lack of communication. It’s difficult for me to bring this up now because I’m kind of walking on eggshells because of a lot of other things in our relationship I didn’t mention in this post. 
I know it’s immature for him to not communicate about this. There’s just a lot going on here and I just wish things were different and I don’t know what to do. I don’t want to say I feel trapped with him because I want to be with him, but I feel trapped in the current predicament we’re in.

He had been on a date with her before and then planned the museum day with her the day before we left on a trip for my birthday, pushing off the day we were planning on leaving.   
I’m also hurt that he made plans to hang out with someone he dated without setting a clear enough boundary for my comfort, which also affected the trip planning for my birthday for a reason that at the time to me was not clear.   

Wait, so he delayed your birthday trip so he could go on a date with another woman he hadn't told you about, after telling you he was insisting on a closed relationship? And the only reason he didn't get to cheat on you (on the day before your birthday trip) was due to circumstance?

And he believes this "secret date with a woman he previously slept with" that he wasn't going to tell you about was totally above board?

Him constantly sniffing up her skirts 24/7 is already causing friction

Ending a loving relationship by cheating might be self sabotage. Therapy is a great indication you will be prepared for a beautiful future. 

We learn as we get older. You are at a great age to heal and learn.

I’ll be honest with you I’m probably not the best person to answer this question, because I’ve been on the other side. I was the one who was betrayed, and it had a very serious impact on my life.
That said, I do believe people can grow. For me, being a good person isn’t only about romantic relationships. It’s about how we treat people in general whether we care about them, respect them, and respect the relationships and trust that exist between people.

If your ex forgave you, that’s one thing. Forgiving yourself is often a much harder step.

What I’m about to say may be difficult to hear, but it’s something I genuinely believe. When I look back at the person who betrayed me, I don’t think of it as the worst thing that could have happened to me. In a strange way, that relationship ending made room in my life for healthier relationships, deeper self-respect, and people who were able to treat me better.

In many cases, betrayal doesn’t begin with a single act. It usually starts much earlier, in the way someone approaches commitment, honesty, responsibility, and the feelings of another person.

Because of that, I don’t spend much time wondering whether the person who hurt me regrets it. I genuinely hope they’ve grown and become a better person.

And if there’s one thing that might bring you some peace, it’s that the people who are betrayed often go on to build happier lives than they imagined at the time. Painful experiences can become turning points.

So rather than focusing on whether he forgives you, I think the more important question is whether you’re becoming the kind of person who would never make that choice again.

I think it's a good sign that she's trying to figure out who she is.

You don't have to like it. Your feelings are valid. But they are your feelings to work through.

The biggest flag to me here is that she went from 0-100 in no time at all. I personally think if you start threatening to breakup in a relationship when you are vaguely emotionally triggered you’re not ready to be in a relationship. It’s like in a marriage, once the d word is out of the box there’s no putting it back in. 

I would send her a message being like “hey I understand suffocated wasn’t a good word to use and that you are hurt. But this reaction isn’t healthy for either of us and we need to speak on the phone or in person to make sure this doesn’t happen again - both me trying not to trigger you but also the way you are handling this conversation

Your partner needs to pick a side here because this friend is basically testing how much she can get away with and hes letting her win every time

Pull all the bank statements and phone records and go over them carefully. There's probably more instances to find. Also browser history if you can.

Also be very careful once you actually file for divorce. Right now he's trying a tactic of self directed violence / neglect / pain et al. If that tactic fails to work, he will possibly change tactics and start directing it at you.

Talk to a lawyer asap.

That changes nothing, does it?

Your wife is abusing you.  Verbally, emotionally, financially.  Honestly you should leave her and try to get custody of your daughter.

He's probably jealous that you get to travel while he's stuck at home, but taking it out on you instead of just saying "hey I'm bummed I can't come" is pretty immature for a 30-year-old.

Jesus Christ this is the third time you've posted this

The shit I read on this page never ceases to amaze me.

What if instead this is how this young(I'm assuming) woman decenters men from her life? In my own personal experience, I know a few women and girls that went through a similar change where they started prioritizing female friendships and socialization as a way to move away from men.

She is abusing you! Emotional and financial abusing you may not be ethical treatment of a loved one.

Hurtful but at least you know now. I don't think there's any ideal timeframes on making things official, but if he doesn't want to be exclusive and you do, it is hurtful but best you let it go and find someone who does. You'll feel resentful in the long run.

The financial setup alone is a massive red flag 🚩 You're working multiple jobs while she controls all the money AND you have to justify spending 6 euros on tennis? That's not a partnership, that's financial abuse

  
She's manipulating you with the whole "find an apartment" thing just to test your reaction, plus constantly tearing you down and calling you names. Nobody deserves to walk on eggshells in their own relationship like that 💀

TAke my advise, you need a new bf. If he's not willing to assimilate your culture, and isn't interested in you and your culture, it's time for a new bf.

“She takes your money when you’re in need….”

Well one thing that can be challenging is that those pieces we find a bit hard about those we care about make them the whole person we respect and love. 

So ask yourself seriously if you can get over this. It does mean a lot of people will see more of her than a regular relationship. That is very hard. But at the same time, her nature is undoubtedly what you are attracted to, and its that same personality that is comfortable with nude photography. 

If you cant get over it, then just be honest. It will hurt, probably both of you, when you do so but its still better than dragging something out or causing more pain. I dated someone who did some modeling which I could handle but nude photography would be too much for me personally and that doesnt make you a bad person. It would be bad if you tried to control what she does for your own comfort however.

Gonna be a rough one here but talk to her about it, if she's a real one she's going to understand and help you work on this, part of a good relationship is being able to come to each other when you have a problem.

You don’t want a marriage you just want a wedding

I don't tell her she can't I just told her how I feel about it I just wanted to know if other people shared the same though as me. I love her to death and I will not take her happiness from her it's just I don't even want to see other women naked

I would tell her I would think about it and asked her to stop talking about the subject because I need to reflect about alcohol. I would thank her for her concerns and you know she wants you safe.

If she insists about her behaviors I would say it's better to give our relationship time and space. It would be better this way.

In my opinion we can't judge the judge. It's too much work and exhausting. Good luck.

He is trying to make you the bad guy bc he wants to break up. If he really wanted you there he wouldnt say “youre just saying that” he would be thrilled and encouraging you to move.

Yep you're right. That's what's freaking me out too, this in-between state.

Yeah makes sense why he is denying everything then.

Dude got attacked, and instantly defended himself, thats to be expected honestly. 

So imo, you have two choices, either you just dumb him on the spot.
Or you work on the communication. Working on the cummunicstion would require that he folds and admit what happends as honestly is kinda key in a relationship. So you approach this calmly, by telling him you are willing to look past this if he just admit he did ask for her to talk to you about it. If he doesnt admit it, dump him and move on. 

If he admits it, well then you have something to work with, and then you can have a calm talk about why he did what he did, and how both of you can avoid it from happening again.

Maybe I'm missing something but if he's been feeling this way for 2 months and didn't say anything until now, that's pretty rough 💀 like you can work through miscommunication but the whole "I need space to think" thing when your already doing long distance feels like he's just buying time

I'm not native English speaking no ty. Ik but that's the only thing that bothers me ab her and I wouldn't want to lose her for that

You deal with it by growing up and stop living for IG fake stories. 

Honestly, this is the perfect engagement story if you have any humility/sense of humour, way better than fake manufactured events. Engagement stories isn't the point, it's the beginning of the rest of your life with someone you love. That's the aim, nothing else.

Idk. Why are y'all fighting so hard on holiday that he needs a self imposed timeout? Also I think you should examine the things you feel you needed from this proposal, why those things are important to you.

I feel awful when people ask me how he proposed... I just don't know what to say.

“He got down on one knee and asked me to marry him and we both cried with happiness”. 

What else do you need to say? Life isn’t an instagram post and you are going to destroy every happy moment you have if you just end up worrying about how other people will judge it.

I feel awful when people ask me how he proposed... I just don't know what to say.

“He got down on one knee and asked me to marry him and we both cried with happiness”. 

What else do you need to say? Life isn’t an instagram post and you are going to destroy every happy moment you have if you just end up worrying about how other people will judge it.

No I don't that's true and I don't tell her no but It goes over my norms maybe I need to grow yes but still it bothers me

You guys sound young. We do a lot of exploring and changing our whole lives. She's trying this on and seeing what works for her. In other words, she's growing. And there's no telling right now what she grows into. You can be supportive. Or you can be resistant. I think you would want her to be supportive when you want to grow too. Maybe look for ways to do that. Like if you can tell she's feeling insecure in something, but you think it's great, let her know. And if you notice she's feeling good or confident about something, build that up. And spend some time thinking about why this bothers you. Explore that, be responsible for your own feelings. You'll learn more about yourself. 

But please don't make her feel insecure about it. Always remember you care for her and treat her how you would want to be treated. There will be times you want to change who you are too.

I learned my English via yt and gaming never learned it in school my bad I'm from Belgium

Nah, you’re not rong.

wait you can't spell "wrong" but you're worried about fotoshoots? maybe focus on teh spelling first lol

  
but real talk, artistic nude photography is pretty common and doesn't usually involve people getting all touchy feely unless it's like couple portraits or something specific. if it's just group artistic stuff then skin contact would be minimal and professional

  
what kind of shoots is she actually doing though, that matters a lot for context

So things were good when you were giving her money, and things are bad now you aren’t giving her money. 

Do you need me to connect the dots here for you?

Your feelings are normal. You are alright to break any relationship for any reason. Listen to your gut. Your thinking belongs to you and determines your outcomes.

It's not wrong for you to dislike a partner getting close to other people while Naked. It's wrong if you try to tell someone who already enjoys doing this that she's wrong and disrespectful to you for continuing. You can either accept it or find someone else more compatible with your preferences.

She "doesn't want to depend on anyone" yet was perfectly fine taking your money? Why are you giving a woman 7 years older than you money?

You don't own her and she's free to do whatever she wants with her body. However it does sound strange..  if you don't know the context it could lead to porn and OF.

I think he would take that as he’s not enough for me

English may not be their first language

I assume you are not a native english speaker, so I wont comment on the spelling.

Id say you're wrong to say it is disgusting by itself, its just art. But it is okay if you are uncomfortable with this, I know I would feel uncomfortable. But that means you need to realize this and part ways.

I don't know what you mean by genuine attraction. How do you define if it is genuine or not ?

Some people have unstable feelings of attraction. This could be related to hormones, psychological issues, a lot of things. We have no way of knowing what this person is experiencing, and if it is "doomed" or not. 

What we can help the op with is figure out if they want to invest time and effort with their partner to try and figure out what is going on and what can be done together about it. It's ok to not want to do this work with/for someone

Thinking this is a shitpost because of the laughably bad spelling. Could’ve been typed out by a 10 year old.

She is back with her ex.  Tell her she should focus on that and quit messaging you about her feelings for you.  

Then you need to block her from being able contact you and move on with finding someone that is not acting like an emotional ping pong ball.  She is all over the place and you are in the middle of their relationship.  Time to back off.

No, he's unhealthy and immature because he's an asshole! He's old enough to know exactly what he's doing

If the friend happens to be male he wouldn’t be happy with that and would say “he’s only your friend because he’s attracted to you”

Wtf is rong? 

What type of photography does she participate in?

Yes, it’s weird to be this hung up on how she dresses. Love shouldn’t be based on that. How old are you?

I mean... If you can get past the romantic interest and see her as a close friend (like actually kill the romantic interest) then this can work.

If you are not the kind of person that can control their emotions, then it's probably best for your own mental health to set some clear boundaries or stop comms altogether. 

If you didn't mind being the backup, you wouldn't be making this post, so I'd lean more towards moving on. She's in a different state and juggling two guys. It's very difficult to build a meaningful romantic connection when you're a flight apart.

oh i was very upset with him i told him i was upset and angry and hurt that he wouldn’t communicate those things with me and then he started denying everything

I don’t get it. Why would you be giving money like that to a new girlfriend? And why would it matter that much that you couldn’t keep it up when you don’t have a steady income from being an entrepreneur? I wouldn’t want to be with someone who feels this entitled to my money this early in a relationship

I hope your husband finds out about this and leaves you. You’re hung up on your ex and threw away a good friendship to “not flirt” with him. Grow up and get mental help. You’re also a hypocrite for admitting you’d break your husband’s phone over this but not caring that you’re doing it behind his back. Ugh.

I just think when someone tells a person they aren’t attracted to them, it’s not likely to change. Genuine attraction is chemical and sometimes beyond our control.

They’re both unhealthy and immature..because they’re kids!

But is it really who you are if you've changed yourself so much? Is it who YOU want to be?

The money dynamic probably changed everything more than you realize. Once that became part of the relationship equation, it's really hard to untangle what's genuine connection versus what feels transactional - especially when promises get broken around it.

  
That outside person didn't just poison the well, they gave her a reason to question the whole foundation. Now she's probably wondering if your interest was ever really about her or if the financial help was some kind of expectation-setting. The hot and cold thing makes sense - she's trying to figure out what this relationship actually is without that element.

  
If you want to rebuild, you'd need to completely remove money from the equation and prove the connection exists without it. But her pulling back and saying she wants to focus on herself might be her way of telling you she's already checked out mentally.

But she wanted a guy like that. How come she do not want those things now? Imagine she was a blonde and you were looking for a blonde and after some time in a relationship you say to her "Why your hair is blonde? I love brunettes. I need a brunette in my life". I think of this situation like that.

Sure timing is wrong now but damn if we love each other why not go through all tuff times together. "Ride and die" if you know what I mean. If we go through lows together imagine how the highs would feel.

Do you think I like making coffee, cocktails and what not? No. But it has purpose. Sometimes you gotta go trough tuff times just so you can enjoy high times. If my whole life was high, I would not feel the joy. Here is an analogy:

Imagine if you play right now some th show. You would probably watch one or two episodes and stop. But imagine you.just finisged your shift at work, took a huge dump in the toilette, ate some nice food and then  watched the tv show. Ypu would enjoy it more because you did something that day and you rewarded yourself for it.

You're 35, acting like someone 10-15 years younger, crying hard about a man leaving the hotel room for a 5 min cooldown after a fight, desperate to marry a guy you've been with for 1.5 years and who you have been repeatedly fighting with over the last 6 months.

Aren't you worried about how this relationship is going to turn out long term?

I dont think it is. But Ive lost and changed myself so much for this. I cant loose it now

Give the relationship time. Outside interference can weaken over time. Maybe don't bring up your position more than twice.

he is happy to marry u and get to spend the rest of his life with u.  
he proposed.

*and u are caught up with how it went?*

okay.

You just have to think about if the good is worth the bad

I hate him, but i love him. Hea perfect every other way, he makes me food, gives me massages, and i just over looked the women because i thought it was fair. But i cant do it anymore. I feel gross when he compliments me

yes, but i thought we can be friends like before as we were only close for a few days.

100%, i refuse to believe anyone would willingly make themselves look so terrible to be around and not realise they're the problem.

When people ask you how he proposed (as if that even matters) you simply tell them "we went on a romantic retreat, and one evening he popped the question"

Ez. 

But, if this is why you question this whole relationships, I feel like you don't really want to marry this man. You just want to be married... Honestly I pity him

Hi, I think context would be help in this situation. Where I live it typically takes about 6 months to get a new job though I understand that some outliers might take longer. I have considered this before taking my break and I do plan to get back to working full time when I have my mental health under control, believe me I don’t want to be unemployed forever. 

On the housing situation, living with parents into your 30s, even 40s is very normal where I live. LGBT couples are not allowed to own joint public housing, and private housing is extremely expensive costing millions. Public housing as a single applicant is only allowed after 35 and comes with many limitations and strict income ceilings to qualify. Therefore none of us have immediate plans to leave our parents home though we would be open to purchasing our own places and individuals when we are financially ready.

Why haven't you blocked her yet since you know that she's only using you? She can only do to you what you let her do.

This is so sad actually. Signs of our society entering recession and gender norm propaganda working too hard.

You can dislike anything. You can decide that this isnt the person you want to continue a relationship with. People change over time. I would argue that this is a reasonable change and you should get over it.

Small piece of advice, think long and hard about discussing it with her. There are very few versions of that conversation that goes well.

By the way, age and length of your relationship is important for others to understand context. Her being 21 and you all dating 6 months is different than her being 40 and being together 10 years.

Man I feel this so much 😅 went through something similar when I was grinding hard in design school and working nights. Had a girl who just couldn't understand why I was always busy with projects and side gigs

  
Look brother from what you wrote it sounds like you two just want different things right now. You're building your future and she wants more attention - both are valid but they don't match up. The guilt tripping part is what gets me though, that's not healthy at all. When someone really supports your dreams they don't make you feel bad for chasing them

  
I remember my ex used to get mad when I spent weekends working in freelance projects instead of hanging out. She'd say stuff like "you care more about your computer than me" which was total bullshit but it messed with my head. Eventually realized that person who truly gets you won't try to sabotage your ambitions like that

  
The timing might just be wrong man. You're in heavy grind mode which is necessary for where you wanna go, and she needs someone who's more available. Neither of you is wrong but forcing it when the needs don't align just creates resentment in both sides. Maybe have one real conversation about expectations without the guilt trips and see if there's middle ground 💀

My boyfriend shaved his goatee and he looks like an insurance salesman (a handsome one, but still). So I feel your pain. He had a valid reason and it's his face, so I have to just chill. 

As a woman who does not like dresses or makeup, I have tried it here and there over the years. It isn't for me, even if I might sometimes wish I enjoyed it. She will probably go back to the way she dressed before, makeup is work and feeling awkward in your clothes is hard to get used to. If she asks you, be honest (mention that she is always beautiful) and tell her you preferred the other clothes but that you are going to show her off no matter what she wears.

Life is rarely as romantic and perfect as the media (and often, our brains) picture it to be. 

Your proposal happened the way it did, and there is nothing you can do to change that. It sounds like it was totally organic, and gives you a lovely/funny story to tell. 

My advice would be to stop reimagining it in your head and comparing it to your perfect proposal. You're going to convince yourself you weren't happy with it, and that is likely to cause issues going forward.

I find it so odd that people put so much pressure on what is essentially an event that lasts a few minutes, but is a sign of something much more important - that another person wants to spend their life with you. Focus on that, and appreciate it for what it was.

his point about life not going to plan is dead on. youre getting caught up in the instagram version of proposals when what actually happened shows something way more real. he literally asked if you wanted to marry him after a fight and you both said yes anyway - thats the actual foundation of marriage right there. the fancy hotel stuff wouldve been nice sure but the real moment was already done. also you can always just tell people he proposed during a romantic weekend getaway if the details bug you that much

There are several things to point out here. 

It sounds like you guys are young, so she’s still figuring out who she is. There’s not point in life where you stop changing and if you do, that’s an issue in itself. 

A lot of girls find safety in being a tomboy because they learn early that being feminine comes with danger and disrespect. She’s getting to a point now where she doesn’t feel the need to choose anymore. 

You don’t have to be the same person every day! One day you could be Adam Sandler, the next Margot Robbie. 

Maybe her feelings are growing for you, meaning she feels safer to practice this new part of her with you. It’s quite the compliment. 

You don’t have to like super femme girls, but you’re not allowed to hold somebody back when they decide that’s not all they are. You two should talk it out together and see how you want to proceed. I wouldn’t say “I don’t like that you wear dresses and makeup now,” but maybe “I noticed you’ve been exploring your femininity and I think I need a little reassurance that the tomboy I fell in love with is still in there.” And then work with her. Ask her, is this a night where my girlfriend is going to be her girly self or is today laid back? You could even join her on the dressy days, put on a button down and clean shoes. You might like it.

I get the concern but there is a zero-percent chance OP lives in the United States based on the facts of the story.

Absolutely not. Lots of men respect and love their partners, but I'm sorry you're boyfriend isn't one of them. There are lots of good people and good men out there, but unfortunately there's also a lot of ones who aren't so great. Your boyfriend is rude, controlling and hypocritical. Id say he's likely just using you or trying to manipulate you.

He doesn't sound very stable in his mind. A 6 month rollercoaster and now this. Sounds like you're better off without him. Imagine that you had moved in together. Even if the lack of desire is testosterone related his reaction seems deeply immature.
You dodged a bullet !

why do you keep posting this??

100%, it's not a nice way to live

You sound moderately unhinged. I suggest therapy and hopefully someone will clue your husband in on your highly unhealthy behavior.

well, but how do I know he isn’t messaging? 😅

Do all men do this? This is my first relationship and everyone tells me all men do. If this is true, i would rather be alone if im never truly fully loved

He's being a controlling hypocrite, and it's very unhealthy. Its your relationship and yk it better than I do, but I don't think he's going to change (from what you said previously), and he's just wasting your time and being an asshole.

You're 35 you should know just how much of life doesn't go according to plan. 

I for one love this proposal story. It sounds heartwarming and very sweet that despite all the difference and squabbles you continue to choose each other every day. It was followed by boats and lakes and tasting menus, it's perfect !

When people ask, you can just say that you had a private, intimate proposal that was very emotional and beautiful and you’re glad it was just for the two of you and not a public moment. It can be as simple as that to explain it.

If you still want the photo op moment, you can still have it. Go to the scenic locations, talk about your love for one another, have a romantic date there, and take some engagement style pictures holding up the ring.

Caption it that he proposed at the general location. You don’t have to go into the specifics that it was in the hotel room and not on the scenic trail or whatever. You can even just caption it with “I said yes” or something generic like that.

If it’s really bothering you emotionally, you could still have an intimate, proposal-like moment in the scenic spot to reiterate your love for one another.

There are many solutions to your issue. There is nothing to feel embarrassed about.

With a grain of salt because I don't know why you "hate" your parents and none of this applies if they're actually abusive, though the tone here reads like teenage "lol my parents suck!": 

You're still a kid, you live under their roof, you rely on them for rides, and you're constantly lying about where you are and what you're doing. I was the same at your age and dated a shitty 22yo predator and my parents were lenient, but as soon as I started lying and acting sketch, they started calling my friends/their parents to double-check my location and started calling me out on my shit, taking my phone, giving me an earlier curfew. I feel too that there's a fine line between parents being sexist and parents who are aware of how the world around teenage girls operates, and who mean well by trying to keep their child safe, despite focusing on her actions instead of the actions of others. So between the lying and the potentially misguided, well-meaning attempts to protect their daughter, I'm not sure if the actions you're describing are unreasonable. They are being lenient by continuing to give you rides despite clearly knowing that you are lying. 

And literally I was a good kid and my parents were lenient but I STILL felt like they were frequently unfair, had double standards for me and my brother, were sexist, were overly intrusive and violated my privacy, etc., but I was still a kid at 17. I was still a kid at 18, 19, 20, 21,... now I'm 33 and appreciate everything they did to protect me, take care of me, etc., and I forgive them their missteps.

THIS, literally from a long time ago i liked K-pop and stuff, and when we got together i stopped liking that stuff. But time to time on my tiktok would be a shirtless kpop idol, and he got so upset at me. I ended up needing to remove a lot of ppl i followed on tiktok (males) because he wanted me too.

\> Alcohol is socially normal but it is about as toxic and addictive as heroin. 

  
It is not as addictive as heroin. Don't lie.

This is why you desperately need to speak to a therapist. Closure is this mythical thing we chase, as if a brief conversation after 8 years of no contact will make a difference. That should have been achieved years ago. 

You have been stalking him, his family and his wife on social media for many years. You also had the opportunity before but you chose to reminisce about how he is your first love, asking him if he still had pictures etc. It seems that you’re chasing validation that he feels the same way you do, this isn’t closure, it’s reopening a communication pathway and needing to know that you still have significance in his life. 

If you badly needed closure, you would have contacted him before now and in a different form. You have learned that he’s been online in this game, the place where you both met, it’s almost like you’re trying to relive your past too.

The more I think about this post the more I think it depends on HOW she let me down previously. Was she polite? Her being in a relationship is an extremely valid reason to not date and I respect that boundary, I would also take it to mean she is faithful to whomever she is seeing which is a positive not a negative. 

It all keeps circling back in my mind to how it was done by her. if it was handled with class and it was in a way I could understand, respect and appreciate. Yes I would consider meeting up later when she became single.

I don't think you're in the wrong. Its a perfectly reasonable boundary to have and he isn't respecting that. I'm sure he wouldn't like it if you started looking at other guys on the internet

Telegram feels like such a sketchy app to me, personally.

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Well the good news is that you’ve only wasted 4 months on this racist. It’ll be much easier to move on.

What makes you think they are necessarily doomed ? (Genuine question)

You deserve someone Who loves you for who you are. He does not.

I would end this relationship, but that's up to you.

Could also be that your jokes about "hating work" and being "a baby" are hitting different when she's grinding through 6am wake-ups every day - might want to dial those back regardless of the memes.

You're 35 you should know just how much of life doesn't go according to plan. 

I for one love this proposal story. It sounds heartwarming and very sweet that despite all the difference and squabbles you continue to choose each other every day. It was followed by boats and lakes and tasting menus, it's perfect !

Could you have some kind of hormonal imbalance? My husband had similar feelings, our roles were reversed. Part of it was the medication he was on and some other health/lifestyle stuff. Once he got worked all of that out (talked to doc about med switch etc) everything got better. He still isn't exactly dying to snuggle 24/7 but he's much more interested in being physical. I was so frustrated and close to ending the whole relationship because I felt like I always did all the work and all the initiating. Doesn't matter how obsessed you are, if none of that energy is ever reciprocated it starts to wear you down.

this kinda seems like the reverse of most relationships. he expected you to read his mind and when you didnt it caused you to have some transgression against future plans you had no clue about. 

He needs to communicate!!!! you cant read his mind! if you could read minds you would probably have mentioned that to him by now. I also would urge you to express that to him. That you had no way of knowing what his plans were because he didnt say anything. I would be curious to knwo what his thoughts were on that.

He is being racist. He may not realize how inappropriate and offensive he is being. 

One way to change is to have a shock that changes your view of the world.

Being dumped because he is saying racist things may be the shock he requires to become a better person.

I meant naked women and women in sexy clothes

Aright then, what was your reaction towards you bf in regards to this? Could it be interpreted as negative?

I think you’re misreading it — the alarm thing was suggested advice, not something I said. And needing structure to translate feelings into actions isn’t the same as not caring, that’s actually pretty common for neurodivergent people. I’m not looking for a timer to check if I still care about her, I’m looking for practical ways to keep the connection alive and give us things to look forward to when we’re apart. That’s a pretty different thing.

If this is real, you’re actually crazy. I hope your husband finds out

I’m in the same exact situation but just that I’m 21F and my bf is 22M. I’d say my parents are exactly like yours and yeah I have been doing the same thing for 2 years too. But here’s the future of your story (it’s my prediction cause it happened to me) one day when I was having a sleepover at my boyfriends I had told my mum I’m at that usual friends place. Early morning I get a call from my friend saying my mum is in front of her house and isn’t leaving at all. I’m panicking cause 8 am in the morning and my mum is very close to finding out the truth.

I somehow made her get out of my friends house and come meet me at the nearest mall, then everyone told me to just confess and so I did. I didn’t know how I did it but I confessed without kill!ng myse!f

And then came the after math, now I’m on house arrest, they’re not letting me see him not even go out. Typing this from my bed, it’s so hard because I lived and laughed so much with my boyfriend and now suddenly I have to adapt to a verbally abusive household all over again. Idk if tomorrow exist and if it does will I ever get to see him again, but I’ll keep hoping for it.

we are broke college kids, so kinda no. I am in therapy but only 1x a month. thank you for the rest of your reply

With all due respect, this is above Reddit’s pay grade with regards to a deeply engrained phobia. It requires someone to therapeutically guide you.

You said you’re seeing a psychiatrist— I would probably suggest a therapist as well.

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I know, its so hard. I feel so stuck and screwed.

I'm sorry you're going through this. I have OCD and my anxiety spirals are very similar to this. You might want to ask your psychiatrist about exposure and response prevention.

I wanted to talk with him for closure, we had a bad flight when we broke up, and we never spoke again since 2018.

I think this short-term, you're best off trying to "ignore" it by distracting yourself.

Lol you're serious, really? Stop projecting. This is only a problem because this girl is paranoid and needs to check his history. Like maybe I'm old-fashioned but I don't think that keeping tabs on your partners online activity is healthy behaviour.

Yes if it's porn addiction that is a serious problem in a relationship and should be addressed. But they say nothing about porn, just 'looking at girls online', which could literally just mean scrolling on Instagram.

I think you're misunderstanding, I don't find the timing random at all, in fact quite the contrary.

    I suppose she must of felt emotionally exhausted for an extended period, and now she finally had time to process things and prioritize herself. I support her in that decision, her leaving is not my issue, it’s how she did it.

I brought up timing since we made a promise to each other. I didn't include this in my post, but I wanted to leave couple weeks ago. We both agreed we should finish our finals before making any hasty decisions.

    At the storm's peak, we mutually agreed to stay together both of us had wrapped up their finals — I held up my end, she did not.

Why are you so determined to talk to him then?

Why were you giving money to someone who wasn't in a long term committed relationship with you?  You can't buy love.

yeah she basically said exactly that and she had just told me that her bf told her she had to talk to me about stuff and than me and her got lunch and she told me everything there

I was not flirting with him, so I don’t think I was cheating on my husband. I would never get back with this ex.

Aright good.

So how did that conversation with your bsf start out, did she outright say, your bf, told my bf, to tell me, i should talk with you about this.

Or when did all this got mentioned?

kinda sounds like he's making it easier for himself to say goodbye by creating distance first. my ex used to do similar thing where he'd get weird right before i had to leave for work trips

  
the fact he blames you for everything when you try talking about it is pretty telling though. you deserve someone who doesn't make you feel like shit every time you're leaving

This post is satire right?

what was the broken promise and what was the "wrong information" someone fed her?

She was right. 

You are emotionally cheating on your husband, even if it’s not reciprocated. It’s incredibly obsessive the way you’re handling it and I’m not surprised she’s deeply uncomfortable. She’s handled this with grace and gave you multiple warnings before having to take this step. The way you’ve handled it with the threats (‘you’re making a serious mistake’ and blocking her etc), is honestly such a red flag. You’re in serious denial atm. 

You need to take a step back for a few weeks from this game and reflect, probably even speak to a therapist to find out where this is coming from. Toxic relationships can do a number on you. Hopefully you can salvage the friendship in the future.

Good that it’s long distance.  Just tell him that you didn’t believe he was being honest about his telegram messaging…since it definitely for secret chats and blocking messages from being screenshot.  Let him know that you guys are too far away to have trust issues and that it’s over.  Then block him.  

He will likely never tell you the truth anyway.  Whatever response or reason he would give is irrelevant and probably another lie or to make you feel guilty for not believing his lie.  He wasn’t man enough to be honest when you asked him, so it doesn’t matter now.

LDRs are hard enough as it is.  You don’t need this.

It was never real, you were being used.

Lets just clear things up here.

Your bf, told you bsf bf, to tell your bsf, that she should talk to you about these things?

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Dude he literally does not respect you. He puts your connection to your culture down and expresses racist thoughts about you, to your face. Why did you not cut this off cold at the first racist remark?

Leave her and start dating someone who wants to have sex with you.

Over the following days, I kept messaging her and even calling her husband so that she would spend time with me and log into the game. I would constantly bring up this ex. I told her that if I were going to talk to him, I needed to do it before my husband returned from his trip.

Yeah this is fake.

Where he did and didnt propose to you is far less dangerous than your belief there is a right or wrong way to propose. 

Let it go. 

Focus on today. You are engaged and its a beautiful hotel!

Why does it matter - if you've spoken to him about this and he doesn't want to change, either deal with it or leave

You deserve better. The balls in his court whilst you just wait around to see if his mind changes, even if you get back on track this could happen all over again. I would take control of the situation and end it myself

The biggest red flag for me isn't who he was texting it's that he made you question your own instincts afterward. A relationship without trust becomes exhausting way too fast.

If her reason was genuine then yeah and I was single I’d be open to a date with her.

Found the porn addict

I want to explain something because it applies to the rest of your life, beyond just the snot incident: what other people think you should feel is irrelevant to determining how you feel. You have to get good at identifying what you actually feel, without judging yourself, and going from there. Even (or especially) the feelings that scare you - you have to be able to name them. No one else can tell you how you feel.

i mean... if YOU thought it was cute then at the end of the day i guess thats all that matters 🤷🤢😭

Yeah, she was right. Work on yourself

And i agree. He doesn't. Every time i bring it up, im the one who gets yelled at and apologizes.

How did you make it to 4 months with a man who has explicitly told you he’s racist against you? Girl. Love yourself. Get out of there.

Engagement photo shoots exist if you want something for social media. But don't forget, social media isn't real life.

You’re both still kids, he’s not a man. You should be online less, so should he.

Honestly, a man choosing you in your messiest, most vulnerable moment is way more romantic than any picture-perfect proposal. That's the kind of love you never forget.

Thanks for your perspective. 

It’s not affecting how I feel about his attraction to me. Part of me even wants to ask him if he wants me to dress up like the girls in those posts when we get intimate because I’m down for that, lol. Idk if that’s a good idea though hahah

Exactly! This is a glimpse of what a real marriage is like. It's not always going to be sunshine and rainbows. It's being able to go through the rain and storms with someone and come out on the other side together. It's not like he didn't plan on doing the big grand proposal, it's just that in the moment the intimate moment was way more meaningful than the performance day

Your fiance is correct.  You are much too concerned with missing out on social media photo opportunities.  Life is all about putting one foot in front of the other.

I think you're mourning the version of the proposal you imagined, rather than the one that actually happened. Honestly, reading this, it sounds like your fiancé put a huge amount of thought and effort into the whole weekend. He got your dad's blessing, bought the ring, planned a trip away, booked a beautiful hotel, a boat ride, and a special dinner. The proposal itself didn't happen where or how he'd planned because real life got in the way. And weirdly, the actual proposal sounds quite genuine. You were both emotional, talking about your relationship and your future, and he asked the question because in that moment it felt right. It wasn't the picturesque lakeside proposal he'd envisioned, but it was real. I also don't think you need to be embarrassed when people ask. You can simply say something like, "We were away for a romantic weekend, got talking about our future, and he proposed. Then we spent the rest of the weekend celebrating." That's still true. It's okay to feel a bit disappointed that the perfect photo-op didn't happen, but I'd try not to let the imagined proposal overshadow what actually happened: the man you love asked you to marry him, and he clearly put a lot of thought into making that weekend special. In the long run, that's probably what you'll remember most.

i thought it was cute …

He is a bigot. Your culture is an important part of who you are, and this man only seems to like you when you make yourself palatable to him by muting that part of yourself. That is horrible, and you deserve so much better than that.

For what it’s worth, I’m white and in a relationship with man of Pakistani heritage. I have loved learning about his culture because it’s an integral part of who he is. We have listened to Bollywood songs in the car (he translates lol), watched Bollywood films, we’ve cooked dishes from his culture together (I make a better roti and karahi than he does!)…the list goes on. The right person will want to learn about and celebrate your culture with you because the right person will understand and love all of you.

Sounds like you're an extrovert.  It's normal and healthy to have friends and make connections.  Your partner can't be everything

Girl the universe literally handed you the most real moment possible - no fake Instagram setup, just raw emotion and him asking if you actually want to marry him after seeing you at your most vulnerable 😭 That's way more meaningful than some staged lakeside photo op that half the internet would have anyway

wanting to meet new people while being happy in a relationship is totally normal - that's just being social and human 😂 you can be committed and still enjoy making freinds and connections without it meaning anything deeper 💀

That sucks. Sorry OP.

Girl what the actual hell did I just read 💀 this aint cute this is unhinged behavior 😂

Update:

In the meantime, I found out that my husband also borrowed cash from the friend he had gone to help. My husband had money on his card, but an escort would only accept cash.

At first, he lied to me and said he had borrowed the money because they had stopped at a restaurant to eat. I called that friend, and he told me they hadn’t stopped anywhere to eat. They transported the car and then drove straight back home.

As I mentioned in another comment, we are currently still living in the same house. We sleep in separate bedrooms and only talk when absolutely necessary. I still have moments when I break down and cry, and he just sits there with his head down and says nothing.

I’ve told him countless times to leave and find a place to rent. I even took his clothes out of the closet and put them outside, but he just stayed silent and didn’t say anything. Later, he told me that he doesn’t want to leave. He got down on his knees and begged me to let him stay so he could continue working at his workshop, which is located on the adjoining property.

He told me that he’s going to start therapy, but we’ll see.

The great oracle Wendy Williams once said: “he’s the killer!!”

Thank you so much for your positive words

Thank you for this. I really dont know if im in the wrong. But i use his phone all the time and he knows that. And he knows i check history too, specifically for when im searching for stuff (like i said to the other person, like old movie sites, old episodes, or even something i accidentally closed out of and need to find it again.

I bet it all feels really heavy and sad right now. Focus on things that make you feel confident. It will get you through the heartbreak and prepare you to meet someone amazing. Sending hugs.

Liking a social media post in TikTok is far from personal. If you're okay with porn, then this is like porn's little brother.

It would be another story if he was reaching out to them, but double tapping a screen when he sees a thirst trap is far from that.

Man you have every right to feel shaken by this. The timing of dropping something like that right after sex is pretty brutal - like he chose the most vulnerable moment possible to basically say "i wonder if someone else would be better"

  
What gets me is how he let one morning of miscommunication spiral into questioning your entire relationship compatibility. You cant read minds and if he wanted to go biking he shouldve just asked instead of building up resentment over something you had no idea about. Then instead of having a normal conversation about communication styles or morning routines he jumped straight to wondering about other partners

  
The fact that hes back to normal now almost makes it worse because it shows how easily his feelings can swing from "maybe shes not right for me" to "everything is perfect again." Thats not exactly the kind of emotional stability you want in a long term partner. You're not overreacting - when someone plants that seed of doubt about your fundamental compatibility over something so minor it really does change how secure you feel

  
Trust takes time to rebuild and he needs to understand that his words have consequences beyond just saying sorry and going back to being sweet. Maybe couples counseling could help you both work through better communication patterns before the next small disappointment turns into relationship doubt

Honestly, this all sounds pretty normal. Being in a happy relationship doesn't suddenly make you stop wanting to meet new people or make new friends. It also doesn't sound like you're looking for anyone else romantically you just enjoy connecting with people, which is healthy.

And being pansexual doesn't mean you have to "explore more" to prove anything. If you've found someone who makes you happy, that matters more than checking boxes. The only thing I'd say is that it's still early, so enjoy the relationship and give it time to grow before worrying about whether he's "the one."

Looking at other girls online is also a problem. OP is setting a boundary and any good partner would take the time to reconsider their continuous actions if they knew it was making their partner uncomfortable and insecure.

"Checking his history is controlling and messed up" so looking at girls online isnt messed up? Be so fr.

This is going to eat you up until fully broken. You can't be with a person like this. He's never going to think well of your family. He's never going to let you be truly yourself in a comfortable way. You need to break up. He's only caring AS LONG AS YOU HIDE PARTS OF YOURSELF to make yourself more palatable to him. 

I had to break up with an Australian dude who told me as a funny story that people at work were asking him if I shit in plant pots and he laughed along and I was meant to find it funny too as obviously WE both know I'm toilet trained. If people don't fundamentally respect you for any reason it's never going to go well. It disgusts me that I let so much little stuff go, I was clearly good enough for him to dress up and get shown off and bang but "too sensitive" to handle jokes here and there. 

I'm very very very westernised but on the odd occasions I've gone to desi events with my family I'm so glad I'm with someone who's happily flown to India with me. Who's piled into an overcrowded flat to celebrate family events with a host of louder than English people with heavy accents, who offer him local food as a sign of love, and he treats it like an adventure not a chore. I barely see my extended family and not being able to bridge that gap for weddings and funerals would break my heart and if you're closer to your roots will probably impact you more. 

You are, in my opinion, seriously under reacting. Your sadness is understandable but the anger I'd expect is missing.

My bf has ended relationships because of this. Because he was sexually fraustaed and also because he hated the way I looked. Then I left him for good he came back. I took him back on hindsight I know he still doesn't like the way I look. Maybe he says I'm very beautiful and stuff like that but I don't find it genuine anymore. But people change and maybe I will trust him eventually or maybe when I meet him again and we stay together for like 2-3 days I will bring up these issues i have had. So idk

At the moment, we’re both still living in the same house. We go about our daily lives separately and speak very little, only when it’s absolutely necessary.
I’ve told him many times to leave the house, but he refuses. He told me that he doesn’t want to abandon me, among other things. He categorically refuses to leave.

Just a lot of self work. Doing my own hobbies. Spending time away from my partner and with friends/family. Learning to self-soothe. There's a lot of great books about it, I think the most popular one is called "Attached", it was a good read. There's a couple therapists on YouTube that talk a lot about it as well. Eventually when I could afford it, I also included therapy. It's really just about having a good relationship with yourself and good self-esteem honestly.

In Romania, those kinds of escorts are not necessarily professional in the way people might imagine. Don’t think of escorts here as being like they are in the Netherlands. Some of them use photos of American models in their advertisements, and when a man goes to meet one of these women, instead of finding the person from the photos, he may find someone completely different — sometimes even a woman in her 50s or 60s. At least, that’s what a male friend told me a long time ago.
I’ve also wondered whether that might be why the escort never answered his calls or called him back. Maybe she wasn’t even real.
It’s painful to think that my husband’s infidelity may have depended on whether an escort responded to him rather than on his own choices.
He told me that he’s going to start therapy, but we’ll see.

Is it porn or other women you know?

He seems very close-minded (if not just racist). I think it's telling that he would rather keep expressing these thoughts and risk upsetting you than just keep them to himself. It's been 4 months; he should still be on his best behaviour in this young relationship. I think you could find someone else who finds Indian culture brilliant and interesting instead of dealing with this guy.

Sadly I think after the no contact break if he still doesn’t want to be with me sexually there’s no space for talking anymore.

Low T at 35 is pretty common especially with the medication thing - worth checking before you both write this off as relationship issue

Thanks for your honesty. I hope I do find someone else. I don’t make romantic connections with other gay men very easily. I was single for 5 years before this.

Mate. Why are you with him? Dating is meant to be catch-and-release. He's one you throw back.

well my bf was not the one that told her. she told me that her bf told her she needed to talk to me about these issues that my potential bf brought up with him. and than she just told me everything

I’m a very non-jealous person, like, I am not in an open relationship right now, but I would be genuinely happy if my partner got another girlfriend so long as it was all done aboveboard instead of behind my back.

It sounds like he’s in the honeymoon phase with someone else, and disrespects you so much that he’s texting her while he’s on, essentially, a date with you. I think you should feel confident in your assessment and throw this one back.

If you’re wrong, you’re young, and so is the relationship, plus it being long-distance, it was liable not to be forever anyway. Better to misjudge a situation than ignore your intuition and be made a fool of. Or even contract something from infidelity with long lasting consequences like fertility problems.

'My bf of (technically) 2 years has had a problem with looking at online women.'

He has a problem? Or have you made it into a problem?

Checking his history is messed up and controlling. Your insecurity is the problem here by the sounds of it

No wonder you can’t forget what he said.  How does missing an early morning bike ride that you were never told about leap to I wonder what it would be like to be with someone else?  I read it and was WTH???

How did the conversation start in regards to you bsf telling you?

Did she start out by saying, your potential bf told me to tell you this or talk woth you about this - or was this mentioned when all the drama started?

Yes, you’re doomed, and it’s ok. You will find someone who is crazy about you. Do not take him back.

Tell him to get his testosterone levels checked. At his age, its not unusual to be low.

He has no interest in you or your background and isn't even remotely trying to make you feel important.  He is not going to change.  Don't waste anymore of your precious time with him, he doesn't deserve it.

exactly why i’m frustrated because he’s denying it when i have the person he supposedly told saying he said those things. that’s what i’m frustrated about is he’s lying for no reason

Reading your story brought tears to my eyes. Thank you for sharing it with me. I hope your experience can help me in some way.

That’s exactly how we were. We bought a house together and started a business together. We had reached the point where we were talking about having children.
Just like in your case, he was my first partner. I’m the kind of person who is willing to fight for something when I believe it’s worth it. And I truly wanted to build something beautiful with this man.
Someone said that I ignored the “red flags.” But when those “red flags” were happening, I was 17 years old and in my very first relationship. I didn’t even know what red flags were then.

Your boyfriend is racist and you should leave him. You deserve better, OP.

You're looking at it backwards though - building those habits shouldn't feel forced if you actually want to be with someone. It's like treating love like a marketing campaign where you schedule touchpoints instead of just... missing them and wanting to connect

  
The whole "set alarms to remember to text" thing is honestly kind of depressing. If you need reminders to think about your girlfriend then maybe that tells you everything you need to know about where your head's really at

This isn't you overreacting at all - those "jokes" are straight up racist and his complete unwillingness to engage with any part of your culture after 4 months is telling you exactly how he feels about it

  
The smell comment especially made me cringe, like who even thinks that's acceptable to say to someone they're dating. And shutting off your music mid-song? That's just disrespectful on multiple levels

  
You've already tried talking to him about this twice and he's deflecting with the "it was just jokes" defense instead of actually listening to why it hurts you. Someone who cares about you would make some effort to understand what's important to you, not shut it down at every turn

Happy you’re safe with pets! So proud of you, best wishes for new life.❤❤❤

Looking at his likes feels different than just watching stuff privately right? Like when you hit that heart button it becomes more interactive somehow

  
You could bring it up casually without making it seem like huge investigation - maybe just mention you saw some of his liked videos when checking out local spots and ask how he feels about the whole liking vs just viewing thing. Most people have different boundaries around this stuff so worth talking through where you both stand

I really don’t see liking posts as an issue, if he isn’t messaging, then fine.

Well, in situations where the girl was still in a serious relationship, yes. That shows she actually has integrity and respected her ex partner, even if the relationship was already coming to an end. 

But if I were the girl, I really wouldn’t get involved with a guy who hits on women in committed relationships.

"It's just a joke"

The weakest cover for racism ever invented.

Dump his dumbass and find someone who respects you *and* your culture.

He didn’t opt in to your umbrella. If you’re bringing a bunch of stuff “just in case” then throw it all in a tote “just in case."

I’m not trying to portray myself as a victim in any way. I simply wanted to express my pain and share my story.
Yes, I believed that love could heal anything because I know what it’s like to come from a toxic family.
We had finally reached a good place in our relationship because I had finally stopped checking his location, and I could finally say, “I trust him.” If a stranger had told me that my husband would do something like this to me, I definitely wouldn’t have believed them.

The twin flame stuff is literally a cult. Be single for a while and work on yourself

Your sister’s new healthy lifestyle turned into a preachy holier-than-thou hobby, that’s the worst part tbh. It’s awesome she got into better eating and cut alcohol for herself, but no one signed up to be her personal rehab case study. Getting mad over 2 beers + grilling or 3 wine glasses to feed a cat is totally out of line.  
She spent 35 years drinking normally too so her sudden extreme takes feel extra unearned. Next time she starts ranting about alcohol cancer stats just nod and zone out, don’t engage at all—no arguing = no big fights later.

Have you pushed him on getting more thorough testing? Three months of unexplained dizziness is way too long to just throw anxiety meds at it and call it good. Could be inner ear issues, blood pressure, medication side effects, or a bunch of other stuff that needs proper diagnosis

This feels like a really bad question. If someone asks you out and you say I am in a relationship and actually are in one, it makes zero sense for the guy to be upset, granted he believes you. Any dude in that hypothetical is subhuman; it would be a red flag if that were the reason for him rejecting you.

That teasing and pulling away when you asked to see it would've set off every alarm bell for me too. Like if it was really just some announcement group why make it into this weird game instead of just being like "oh it's just work stuff" 

  
The timing of everything - constantly texting, switching apps when you looked back, then the panic when you actually got up to leave - that's not normal behavior for someone with nothing to hide. Trust your gut on this one, you're not overthinking it

At first I read this as if your BF doesn’t know what 69 was so was calling it 67 🤣

dont you think the umbrella is for both of us if it’s raining? was just cautious of the weather and didn’t want us to get wet, please dont say like they were all my stuff…

I don’t know whether I’m the one who can save this.

I told him to leave our home. He slept in his car for about four nights, started smoking, and categorically refuses to leave. At the moment, I’ve allowed him to sleep in the house again.

When I tell him how much pain I’m in, he stays silent, lowers his head, and sometimes even cries. But I don’t know if that helps me in any way.

You should have communicated with her what you were really feeling. She shouldn’t be making plans when she already committed to plans with you.

You may get post removal for asking if you are overreacting. This well trafficked site has many rules. I feel you should dump him! 

Don't take his word. Believe his action {s}! He's LDR AND acting a fool when he finally gets in a room with you? I'd better end this response.

How were you going to carry all that anyway? Like, ok, you’re wearing the jacket if its raining, but how were you planning on carrying the camera, umbrella, and handbag? You were clearly already planning on him holding shit for you.

planning my escape as i type (i flinch like an abused dog whenever he says it)

You can still think about her but do not over think because you don't even know her or anything besides how she looks

whenever he says it, i just sigh heavily and look at him in resignation 😭😭 i love this man to bits but come on !!

yikes timing couldnt be worse with that lease situation. moving in when someone just dropped the "too comfortable" bomb is basically signing up for roommate vibes instead of relationship energy

  
maybe use the move as a reset opportunity - like new space new habits kind of thing. but if you're already feeling like the only one putting in effort after just 2 years thats a red flag worth paying attention to before your lives get even more tangled up

It depends on how (and why) she refused the date.  If she told me she was too busy to date, or wasn't in the right head space, I'd be interested a few months later.  If she made me feel like an inferior option compared to others that asked her out, I'd be put off by that.  Turning me down politely will keep my interest, being rude or condescending will make me lose interest.

In the situation you described, I wouldn't bat an eye.  She turned me down because she isn't available to date, and that's the proper thing to do.  She was never not interested, she just wasn't available.  I'd gladly accept if I was asked out after her relationship ended.

I'm 47, though my answer would've been the same throughout my life, my mindset hasn't changed on this issue.

My girlfriend does this too and I swear its like she cant help herself anymore lol. Started as a joke but now its just automatic whenever theres any kind of pause in conversation. At least your bf is commited to teh bit - mine does it with zero context half the time and just grins like she said something clever

Sounds like she joined a cult and is trying to extend its influence. If she is not seeing a therapist, then speak with the SiL to try to get your sister into therapy. If she is seeing a therapist then see about getting her to bring up this exact topic in the sessions.

Otherwise I can think of a few ways to deal with it but they are all tiring in some way or another.

One is to whenever she brings up a clearly exaggerated statistic, stop what you are doing and audibly look it up on your phone reading out how she is mistaken. 

Another is just to say things like "I am an adult, you can only control your own life" or "I am an adult and this is my decision, not yours".

If you want to choose a more flustering route you could respond with sarcasm, but depending on her personality it could make things worse. Responses like "oh wow, really? I still think it is worth it though" or "yes, that is exactly what I want with my body, actually".

Seriously, remind her of the autonomy of adulthood and try to get her in therapy though. Just like you do not try to control her medical situations she should not be trying to control your diet.

People like this SUCK. 

My boyfriend and I basically argue over who gets to carry the stuff. I want to lessen his load and he wants to lessen mine. As a compromise, we usually switch.

There are a lot of factors to this. If she turned me down once and came back is she on a rebound? Or just going for second option, third? Eighth? Or is this genuine? Will she resent you later because you weren’t her first choice? I’m not sure I would trust her that far. Male 30.

nah bro this toxic af

Yeah I'd probably be up for it - she had a valid reason for saying no the first time and was respectful enough to circle back when her situation changed, which shows decent character tbh.

  
28M for reference.

At this point, just leave.

(I'm kidding, but as a dad of two teens - this triggers my PTSD)

I think she has this idea that she has discovered some hidden knowledge that nobody else is aware of. She talks often about how common drinking is and how everybody drinks and how messed up that is. She isn't gonna have the wakeup call of "everybody is telling me the same thing, maybe I am wrong" when its already engrained in her mindset that she is 'rebelling' against the norm by being this way.

Urggghhh. It's bad enough that my kids do this constantly, but a grown man? My 7yo has now started saying that's sooooo 2025. So hopefully it'll be over soon. For you as well.

When something unexpected happens and you are taken care of, its generosity. When you prepare for an event expecting the same, its entitlement. It could be interpreted as a red flag that early in a relationship.

Her stats were not correct. The biggest increase was breast cancer at a +20% risk. The other elevated risks were all around 3-6%. This is above the baseline, not that you have a 3-6% risk of getting the cancers. 

I am also not sure how you can possibly argue it is as addictive as heroin. Maybe if you're comparing alcoholics to heroin addicts specifically? 

She also does the whole "any response to what I am saying is being defensive" thing. You know thats disingenuous lol, come on. Of course we aren't just gonna sit there and take her weird dishonest rantings.

If i bring extra stuff with me I expect to be carrying it myself because I brought it and it's my responsibility. If I know I won't want to carry it later I don't bring it.

Sounds like OP is the one that needs a backpack.

Best case scenario, she's immature and does dumb pranks. 

But it also sounds manipulative, or like compulsive lying or whatever else would drive her to this.

I'd have a hard time trusting her.

He gave multiple reasons/excuses, the main being to get back at me for something I did in the beginning of our relationship. 

**You need to leave**. This is someone who views relationships as someone winning and someone losing.This is abuse.

This is a really sad and painful situation for both of you to be in. Realistically, it’s very hard to come back from the person you’re dating straight up insulting you. Even if you tell her it’s not how you really felt, that’s just so hard to believe and emotionally it’s hard to get over.

She should not have read the extra pages of the diary and you have a right to be upset about it.

From my perspective, I find the situation a bit more complex because you guys were already looking through the diary together and laughing about it, so she probably didn’t view reading the extra pages as such a big of a deal. Like, it would be one thing if she just found the diary on her own and read it out of the blue. But you had already shown parts of it to her, so she may not have gotten the same feeling of it being completely off limits.

43F here, for me it would be a huge turnoff if my partner was so thoughtless that they took more things than they can carry. It would make me feel like they are a helpless child instead of a functioning adult. Literally: it's something I'd expect from my 10 yo with ADHD, and even he knows better at this point.

Tell him to get a backpack.

I don't know, I feel like if he didn't want to carry them all day, he should have said something. You probably should have also offered to switch items for a while so he didn't have to lug around everything. That said, him refraining from expressing his frustrations and for him to then throw it in your face is very...childish? I guess is the term I would use

Feelings are feelings. You have the right to feel upset.
However, you told her that it was ok. That's miscommunication.

You should have been honest from the start, and many times that's how you compromise. 

You could have said,  I'm really torn. I want to say it's fine because I don't want to be the guy who says no to you. But the truth is, I was really looking forward to our time together, and part of me would be disappointed if you went. But if it matters a lot to you, I'll figure out how to be okay with it.

Then, if she stays, you have what you wanted; if she still decides to go, that might hurt. But at least it's honest hurt, not confused hurt. :)

Yeah, I think I would be pissed as well (40F here).

If you brought the stuff, you can carry the stuff. If you bring more than you can carry, it's your responsibility to either decide to leave some at home or in the car or carry them around with you. 

Especially the things you mentioned. Jackets can be tied around your waist. Hand bags can be carried around your shoulder. And if the umbrella got in the way of you taking pictures, then you had the opportunity to set it down or hand it to your partner for the duration of the photo-taking. 

I personally wouldn't mind carrying my partner's things for maybe half an hour, but not *all day long*. 

Also what would you have done if he had had his own things to carry? Pretty sure you would have figured it out. Also what if the weather would have been shitty after all? Then you would have been able to carry your umbrella and jacket yourself? 

I personally think there is a difference between helping a partner out and being used as your partner's personal storage unit. But I also think it's disrespectful when I see fellow women just expect their partners to carry a billion shopping bags while they go and buy more. If I buy something or bring something, it's my responsibility to deal with it. I'm an adult, after all.

If anyone ever asks me to carry anything in my purse, best believe I will return the favor. Teaching my teenage son not to be afraid to hold a woman’s handbag! But yea, I’d be annoyed carrying extra stuff too. However, him not communicating about it and waiting to stack his grievances is wildly immature.

He wants to see how desperate you are and how much he can humiliate you and still have access. 

The only way to prove him wrong is continue to be radio silent. No contact.

She aint a mind reader. 

Why would you day you were ok with it if you were not?

Stop playing games.

Hey so this is NOT healthy. Why bring up something in the past that is so petty? Talk to him about how you feel. Do not let time pass.

Hey mate. Stumbled upon this post and felt compelled to post. I've had a fair few breakups in my time, and it's eerily similar to your story. Particularly the shock as the person you love suddenly seems completely cold, distant, and the warmth you once shared seems gone. And as you indicated in your post, you question if it ever existed to begin with. How could this person who would once cuddle up to you on quiet moments on weekends, who you would spend hours with just laughing and killing time, suddenly flip a switch and become so cold and isolating? 

I don't know your situation, or know her, but I've seen it happen a few times now. And truth be told, I think I've done the same thing to someone. I think it's a coping mechanism. It's a pattern of avoidance. It's not that she doesn't care to pick up her things or return your key, it's that it's emotionally taxing. So rather than deal with it, they completely sever ties rather than do any introspection. Or maybe she's been planning this for months, suffering with it, and you just didn't see her while she was grieving the relationship ending while she was still in it.

That being said, I think it was selfish. I think she could've waited a few more weeks for finals, her doing it seemingly IMMEDIATELY after she was finished with med school does speak volumes. You'll likely have questions such as "Did she ever love me as much as I loved her? Was any of it real?" Those are questions you'll ask yourself over and over. That's just part of the journey. You probably can't "think" your way out of it. But allow yourself to feel - probably after finals. 

I do think you need to address what you said earlier about how you reacted to stress. There's something for you to focus on. Look, unless you were absolutely horrible to her and the situation was terrible, she probably doesn't have a great justification for choosing now to end things. But I think it speaks broadly to her avoidance and decision making. Yes, she loved you. Yes, it was real. But it's over now, and she's chosen the path that's easiest for her over what's best for you. I hope you find the strength and will to pick up the pieces and carry on.

This was a very kind and beautiful thing to say. Thank you for your message. It helps to know I'm not alone in this feeling. I hope you found peace and happiness after the experience you had with your past partner.

His old ahh joints couldn't handle the pressure.  He's halfway to 70 lmao

Full blown narcissist

He may not have liked dating you, but he may still like the attention you give him. He would probably be secretly thrilled you're here on Reddit talking about him. It means he's still in your head. It's a power thing.

To me it sounds like anxiety, because I used to be like this with my parents and sibling. Not to this degree, but I was definitely fixated on their health and mortality for a good while. It sucked because that's all I could fixate on when I saw them engaging in what I deemed as unhealthy or risky, and not being able to do anything to stop them other than making comments made me almost lose my mind with worry.

Uuh, therapy helped. I still worry, but a normal amount I think. 

As to what to do, there's not many possibilities other than confronting her directly, but lovingly. Saying you've noticed a shift in her attitude, and that you appreciate her concern, it is starting to affect your relationship with her. And then you can maybe ask if it's due to her being anxious or some other reason. I don't know, you've probably already done all this. If she herself doesn't see a problem with her thinking patterns and behaviour, there's not much you can do other than distancing yourself

Dude it was fine to feel upset, but you didn't handle this in a way that respects a healthy relationship.

If you're upset you should address it in the moment instead of afterwards. Addressing it in the moment gives the two of you a chance to communicate maturely about it and learn how to work through situations where one of you feels hurt by the other.

Addressing it afterwards comes across as you trying to tip the power onto your side - she went ahead with something that upset you, and now you get to hold it over her head and make her feel guilty about it. That isn't cool.

Is this a regular pattern, or a rare occurrence? Why are you setting her up to test her? 

Feeling hurt isn't wrong, but yes - you should have been honest from the get go. Work on the way you conduct yourself if you want to contribute to the health of your relationship.

Read up about people pleasing behaviors and how damaging they can be for relationships.

I mean, he's a shithead and he needs to go eat spiderwebs. There isn't much more to it. Some people are just gross and selfish and wishy washy. Some people cheat, some people use, some people create fake accounts to harass exes. 

Just a sign you leave this creep in the past. Just a sign you were actually the one better off for having someone like that no longer in your life. Just a sign to never let him back in.

The thing about 'not ready for marriage' is that it almost never means what people think it means. It could be about him, it could be about the timing, or it could just be that you haven't figured out what *you* actually want yet - separate from the relationship entirely. Those are three different problems with three different answers.

The grief connection is also worth sitting with. Starting something during that kind of loss can blur a lot. It doesn't mean the relationship isn't real, but it might mean you've never fully separated who you are from who you became together.

One thing I found genuinely useful - someone passed around this book called 'Who the F*ck Should I Marry?' and the part about readiness vs. just wanting to be married hit differently. It's not going to tell you what to choose, but it helps untangle whether the hesitation is about him or about you. Could be worth a read.

She probably dumped him.

Dude's probably realizing the grass wasn't greener and is trying to keep you as backup while he plays house with someone else

Dude.

She kept asking if I was okay with it, and I told her it was okay.

She ended up going, and I got upset.

"Love tests" like this are toxic as hell. You are completely in the wrong here.

Communication and honesty are what make a good relationship. This mind reader shit where she's supposed to just intuit what to do or fail a test she has no real way of knowing she's taking is a great way to ruin a relationship. How in the world is she supposed to believe you now? Nothing you say can be taken at face value. She's always going to be looking for hidden mines if she doesn't make the secret "right" choice.

Blech.

By all means, feel hurt, but you need to understand that you mostly hurt yourself here. You put the rake on the yard and stepped on it yourself by lying to your girlfriend.

So this might not be what you want to hear, but it could be worthwhile to observe and register your alcohol use. Alcohol consumption is the 3rd leading death in the US and the negative effects of systematic alcohol usage are often underestimated by the general public. 

Shaming and judging people really doesnt work and prevents people to address their issues. Her behaviour aside, it does sound like you are moderate drinkers. 5-7 drinks (if accurate) is a lot for one sitting and would qualify as binge drinking. If 3 drinks is a regular occurance, which it might be judging fron the way you talk about it, it might be an indication of a mild alcohol dependency. 

Speaking from experience, an alcohol dependency often causes people to underreport their own drinking. It could be worthwhile to track your alcohol intake (as honestly as possible) over a period of several months. This will also be a GREAT tool to use to silence your sister if it turns out you are drinking less than 2 glasses a week on average.

In this economy, it took some of my friends two years of applying to land a new job. The fact that you aren't concerned about looking for a new job would really irk me and make me think you have poor judgement and work ethic. Also the fact that you aren't concerned about moving out of your parents' house at 30 would also be a turn off. I honestly think you sound like a kid. It would be hard to work towards a future with someone like you. That doesn't mean you are wrong in living your life like you do, but it will make it hard to attract and keep a life partner. That's just my perspective but you'll have to ask her how she feels to actually know.

This whole situation feels familiar - communication getting messy when someone says one thing but means another. You're not wrong for feeling hurt, but she's also not wrong for taking you at your word when you said it was okay.

  
I had similar thing happen with my ex where I would say "sure, go ahead" but internally hope he would read between lines and choose me anyway. It never worked out well because he couldn't read my mind, and I ended up resentful for something I basically gave permission for. The tricky part is wanting someone to prioritize you naturally, but relationships need clear communication more than mind-reading.

  
Next time maybe try being more direct about what you actually want - like "I was really looking forward to our plans, could we reschedule the other thing?" It feels vulnerable but it's way better than this cycle of saying yes when you mean no. She seems like she cares about your feelings based on how she responded, so being upfront might actually strengthen things between you two.

In order to move forward, you and your girlfriend have to get on the same page. Right now you don't trust her and she doesn't believe you. You need to sit her down and level with her that both of those things need to get rectified or this relationship isn't going to survive. And then BOTH of you need to talk about what needs to happen to get you to those places. What she's going to do to earn back your trust. What YOU need to do in order for her to believe what you're saying about this.

I don't think you're wrong for feeling hurt.
But I do think there's a difference between wanting to be chosen and expecting someone to read your mind.

From what you wrote, it sounds like she checked in with you multiple times and gave you opportunities to be honest.

The hard part is that you wanted her to choose you without having to ask.

A lot of relationship disappointment lives in that space.

We tell someone "it's okay" when we're hoping they'll hear "I wish you'd choose me instead."
Then we end up hurt because they responded to what we said instead of what we meant.

Wanting to feel chosen is normal.

Learning to communicate that directly is usually healthier than testing whether someone will figure it out on their own.

Why don't u do something work from home type thing like with dome abroad countries

If that was the case then he would not deny it, that would not make any sense.

i do know that she shouldn’t have been the one to talk to me about it and it should have been my potential bf for sure but that would be her boyfriends fault in my mind

i think i’m confused 😭 my bsf didn’t tell me anything she wasn’t told not to, and i didn’t tell anyone anything i’ve been told not to. my potential bf told his best friend stuff and his best friend told his girlfriend who is my best friend, and her boyfriend asked her to talk to me about it because he has told my potential bf to talk to me and he wouldn’t do it, or that’s what i’ve been told 😭 sorry if that doesn’t make sense i feel like im rambling in most of this

Again, conversations shared, does not leaves the house. Unless your potential partner explicitly asked your bsf to have this conversation with you. If thats not the case they should have kept it to themselves.

Like imagine you share a frustration with your bsf, and she asks a 3rd party to take a up the conversation with the individual causing this frustration, without ypur knowledge, how well do you think that conversation will go? It has no effect other than causing unneccesary drama for all parties involved. Which is excatly what is happening here.

Also, if i were you i would be very weary of what you vent or tell your bsf in the future, because clearly, everything is being shared and it is not kept.

thats a valid point like i told another person here, i asked him once and he told me his single friends send him videos of that type of stuff and he likes them from what i saw. im not the type of person to force things yk but theses days after having my baby have been rough. you dont see ur body the same im more insecured than usual which i have communicated

You’re focusing a lot on the timing, but honestly it sounds like she checked out emotionally long before the breakup. The day after graduation wasn’t random—it was probably the first moment she felt she could finally deal with something she’d been avoiding for months.

She read a private diary after you explicitly said no. Of course she's hurt by what she found, but she chose to open that door. If I read someone's private journal, I'd assume there's a decent chance I'm about to find things I don't like.

Are you able to access couples therapy? And/or individual therapy for both of you?

There are several things which are difficult here: the broken trust, your legitimate need to express anger over that, her hurt feelings over what she read, plus the whole situation with the ex and the frenemy.

I'd suggest approaching the situation with some compassion - for both of you, with emphasis on the self-compassion part. You process things partly by writing in a diary. Those are not fully formed thoughts, they're ideas flying around in your head which need processing.

She has read those thoughts (which came from communication with your frenemy) and she has interpreted it as the literal truth of how you really see her. Yes, she's hurting, and there's healing needed there. You also have every right to feel hurt, angry, betrayed - whatever you do feel about her reading your private processing space without your permission. There's healing needed there too.

The way I see it, that thirst/porn content puts distance between you and him. I'm a husband who has struggled with that stuff. My excuse (not a good reason) is that my wife was very low libido for years due to meds and I found unhealthy ways to cope with that. Regardless if something is cheating or not, (which is something that should be discussed, personal definitions vary in deceitful ways), it's a distraction from real life, a way to divert attention away. Your husband might still love you and be attracted to you, but the thirst content pulls us in because it's a flood of dopamine. Suddenly you become a much lower priority than the millions of shiny things online. I think this is an inherent problem with constantly having the whole internet 2 thumb clicks away. Not even just for sexual things. Plenty of people need to check their 5 social media accounts every ten minutes, scroll through endless short form videos, play the fast paced games with constant flashy rewards, and get absorbed in attractive people doing attractive things. I deleted Snapchat because the main page was constantly pushing thirst content at me, despite me never wanting the app for that. Sex sells, and these companies know it.

Self discipline against media is difficult. My wife and I got fitness watches this year, and an unplanned side-effect is we spend less time on our phones now. It's funny realizing how often we check our phone for the time, which turns into a quick check for notifications, which turns into scrolling through media.

I suggest having a conversation with him about your insecurity, about how it makes you feel like the back burner and he's just viewing content like a single man looking for an outlet. It's not about forcing him to never look at other women, but about his attention span being used up on those women. Imagine going to the beach, and you both lay down on towels, but he just stares at the other women there without ever giving you his full attention. You aren't telling him to stop going to beach, you just want to be the women he spends real time with, the one that he gives his attention to. We can't grow together if we aren't spending quality attention on each other. It's like if you wanted to chat during dinner, but he were just watching sports on his phone every evening. Ask him what would happen if he stopped looking at social media for a couple weeks, would he be unhappy? Would he be frustrated? Does he feel a disconnect now that you are a mother?

Her stats on cancer are correct and she is right. Alcohol is socially normal but it is about as toxic and addictive as heroin. The latter just had more stigma. You sound mighty defensive about your use. Don’t be sheep, wake up to reality.

hard part is, I'm the one that wants to make it work again.  but you're probably right. this time I may have to block her unfortunately.

my only thing is that i’m not entirely sure because i got told he got mad at his friend from my bsf so that could also possibly be misconstrued, and my best friends boyfriend had told her to talk to me about it, i probably should have added that in there somewhere that she was asked to talk to me about it

Talk to her ... Not Reddit ....

If she still carrys on and it bothers you then this relationship is not for you at this time of your life.... And that's OK . 

Focus on you . You're so young you will be OK bud...

Aright first - if he becomes mad at the friend then its cause its true.

2nd - yall need to learn not everything you hear from your partner has to be shared with everyone involved. People should be allowed to vent their frustration and leave it at that. - bbfs or not, what is shared by your partner does not leave the house.

Interrogate in this context means think more about what is uncomfortable about it

This is such a messy situation and my heart goes out to both of you. Your feelings are completely valid - having your diary read without permission is a massive violation of trust, even if what she found was hurtful. You're allowed to feel upset about that boundary being crossed while also feeling terrible about what you wrote.

  
The timing makes this extra complicated because you were clearly in a vulnerable headspace dealing with your ex's situation and those toxic friends. Writing cruel things doesn't make you a monster, especially when you were processing complicated emotions privately. But your girlfriend is now carrying around this image of how you saw her, and that's going to take time to heal.

  
Moving forward, maybe focus on showing her through your actions how you see her now rather than just telling her the words were meaningless. And definitely have a conversation about boundaries and trust - both of you crossed lines here in different ways. The fact that she's asking how to be prettier instead of being angry with you shows how deeply this cut her, which honestly makes the whole thing even more heartbreaking.

I mean tbh, if I say to her that I am uncomfrotable regarding it she will remove the pic. I know that. But doing show will put me in the light of as controlling and also I don't want to hurt her

Called this but go to therapy. For real

Exactly that's what I plan to do. See like I come form a conservative society and this is not the norm around here and even though i am not a conservative myself but the society does have an effect on me. But the main problem is that i don't want to hurt her in any way, I know that as soon as I say that i am uncomfortable with it she will remove the picture. I just don't want to look like controlling to her

Medical school breakups are brutal timing, especially when you're both stressed to the max and someone just... checks out emotionally

  
The key thing jumped out at me - she's basically ghosted you on the practical stuff which is pretty disrespectful. I'd probably change the locks and bag up her things, then text her one time saying she has X days to pick them up or you're donating them. Don't make it emotional, just logistical

  
That instagram repost thing was definitely petty but whatever, you're human and got drunk. happens to the best of us. The real issue is you're looking for closure from someone who clearly doesn't want to give it to you, which sucks but you can't force it. Focus on those finals man, don't let her mess up your grades on top of everything else

Why don't you interrogate that a little bit

That was just an example. I wasnt telling her to just up and leave him. I use the same example every time i leave this comment because everyone understands that outcome easily. 

She can ask him to stop until she's blue in the face. He's already down her that he doesn't care about how it makes her feel. That's not going to change because she asked again.

I’m sorry that happened in your relationship but am happy to hear you are doing well! I won’t be responding much because I’m too mentally tired to honestly but thank you for your time and comment :).

This is a you issue. You’re allowed to not be ok with it and breakup with her. You’re not allowed to be upset about it and tell her what to do. Be an adult, explain your feelings to her and see what her response is. If you don’t like the response, end the relationship.

Yeah and it effects relationships. We need to talk about it

Tbh I am not doing that, it's just in that particular pic she over emphaised her chest and that made me uncomfortable.

“It was like a pic of only her chest and not her face, and it is making me uncomfortable.”

Why is it making you uncomfortable?  You sound really insecure and controlling.

While all of this is right in theory, a 19 year old who just had a child might not be in a position to just leave. And it’s reasonable to just ask him to stop.

They also have a child, so leaving the relationship would affect the baby as well. I still agree about boundaries though. But maybe it’s more realistic to say you won’t share your body with someone who makes you feel bad about it. I would also suggest couples counseling.

You are 18 so it makes sense to be insecure since you havent fully matured yet.

But this is strictly a your problem. 

Sure, you can tell your gf it bothers you.

But nothing is less unattractive for a guy than being insecure.

Ah, I assumed you were Gen Z with the lingo you were using. Carry on.

I’m a millennial, and while we’re also cooked, it’s for different reasons.

"Let’s be real—you can’t suss out a 38-year-old’s true character in just a year or two, especially when it’s not 24/7, full-on living-together contact. He could genuinely be a great guy who just sucks at opening up to women, or he could be putting on this whole ‘respectable, stand-up dude’ act to keep people off his scent. Playing that polite, reserved card makes it way easier for someone to let their guard down and catch feelings, y’know? At the end of the day, you’ve gotta weigh both the best-case and worst-case scenarios, and be honest with yourself about whether you can handle whatever comes next if you take this further."

cooked

So is your generation, young grasshopper.

This is what I mean. Not a lot of people understand that postpartum sucks when it comes to insecurity normally I’m not this depressed or feeling shity considering this is my first kid and everything is new. It’s stressful, I just want him to take the time to communicate better with me in these terms I have talked to him about it but I get he has been working over 18 hours cause his work demands it (yes this is true btw he isn’t cheating cause we both have each others locations in case of emergencies just to put it out there)

Jesus Christ. It’s a fucking social media post. The next generation is cooked.

you're gonna drive yourself crazy overthinking every post and comment if you keep this up, trust me on that one.

I'm really sorry OP. You really, really deserve better than that selfish, uncaring man. I'm proud of you for expressing your needs and am sorry that all you got for it is rejection (in the most cowardly way - ghosting). I am not impressed with him at all.

I know you are thinking about what he is thinking - that you're the annoying girlfriend - but fuck what he thinks. He's undeserving of you and his opinion no longer matters.

I know that's easy for an Internet stranger to say but you will get glad again. You'll feel sad for a while but time really will help.

Throw yourself into your life, doing the things you really care about focusing on healing your ankle (ow!),  working on the other relationships in your life, and, most importantly working on your relationships with yourself.

Truly OP, that guy wasn't the one. He was just a mistake and you'll find someone worthy of you.

Hang in there OP - this too shall pass.

Agreed! 

She's an absolute cutie! The turd she's dating is the problem.

You have to stop comparing yourself to other people. External validation only goes so far, you need to learn to love yourself. 

That starts with ending your toxic relationship and getting into therapy. You don't need to be with someone that gets back at you by using your low self esteem to punish you for shit.

ahhh okay yea if this dude is ripping packs open and praying for a win, yea he needs help immediately.

  
if he's buying sealed boxes, packs, etc. and holding them long term, COMPLETELY different story here.

Yep. He did her a favor by waving his red flag early

Are you in therapy about the body dismorphia leading to a fragile sense of confidence in your appearance?

To me, who a partner follows on social media doesn't matter in any way, shape or form. I don't think your confidence should be dependent on your fiance's following.

The larger issues I see here are in regards to his resons/excuses when you confronted him about this. 

By turning his actions into "revenge" for something you did at the beginning of the relationship, he is being extremely petty. This tells me that small issues that don't get resolved properly may rear their heads in the form of "vengeance" at some point in the future. *(Petty)*

If he wasn't attracted to any of them, why is he following them? Unless they're hobby accounts that are showing skin on the side, there's not much interesting content shown on these more risque influencer's profiles. This comes off as a lie. *(Liar)*

You don't mention anywhere that has taken any accountability for making you feel the way you do. He's your fiance. As someone that should love you, he should care about how he makes you feel regardless of how crazy he thinks this is. *(Zero Accountability or Care)*

Any advice on how to rebuild with myself and the relationship?

Therapy can rebuild your self-worth and confidence. I don't know the ins and outs of the relationship, but based off how he responded to your confrontation, I'm not sure why you would want to work on things with him.

Look there’s plenty of different ways to do sex. Straight people do it, gay men do it, lesbians do it. With an open mind anything is possible. 

Have you considered pegging him?

No one is ever just attracted to their partner. That not real. 

It's OK for you to not like this behavior. You can set boundaries about it if you want to. You haven't actually done that at this point, though. 

A boundary is you telling someone that you won't tolerate feeling mistreated and how you'll react if you feel mistreated. It's not about telling him what he can and can't do.

"I won't be in a relationship where my partner follows first trap accounts on social media. If you continue to follow, watch, and like that kind of content, I'm going to protect my mental and emotional health and I'm going to leave this relationship. "

He's still free to make any choice he wants, but he's going to make an informed choice because he knows that one option is going to result in you leaving him if he picks it. 

Boundaries only work if you respect them. You have to follow through on your response or he's going to know you're just making follow threats. 

That being said, him watching thirst traps doesn't negate his attraction to you. It doesn't diminish anything when it comes to how he sees you or your body. 

Him doing this after you told him how it makes you feel is showing how little he respects you, though. And that's a problem.

That’s disrespectful. Social media sucks.

It’s really tough going through postpartum struggles plus all this mess with your partner. Don’t blame yourself for how you feel; he’s the one failing to keep his word and respect you. Put your needs and baby first always.

i know it’s so stressful and my friends and my mom both told me to just drop it and tell him communication had to get better or we were done, but i’m also trying to give some grace because it’s his first time actually being in a relationship but it’s just getting exhausting.

you're not wrong for feeling like this, and the fact that you are so self-aware is refreshing.  I totally get where your coming from.

  
**this is what you have to do.**  **you need to ask him what he REALLY is doing this for.**  ask him this: are you doing this for mostly money and a little nostalgia? (as an investor myself in stocks & crypto, it's always 100% for the money when investing in anything. that's the only reason why you buy things like this, to MAKE MONEY on top your OWN MONEY) (and ask if this something he looks for 5-10 years out like his job? is he trying to make a full out business with this? is he buying these to genuinely INVEST in them long term, or is he just collecting these because they 'look cool'?

he sounds like he's absolutely addicted to profiting off of pokemon cards, and he's likely been making some money with it.  which for you, you need to understand that pokemon cards, let alone any sort of trading cards/collectibles in today's time, believe it or not, are a full out ASSET CLASS. they aren't 'cardboard'.  if he's going all in on these cards and has grown his portfolio to some good $$$, I say you may have to let him cook, because long term that may change everything for both of you. because if he doesn't have a job currently, he's locking the fuck in on these cards to 'make it out' for himself AND for you, and this may be what he sees as this path (even if you don't see it nor like it)

(AGAIN though, what I said above ONLY works if he's dead serious about these long term.  if he's not doing it for the money, he's wasting his time & at that point I wouldn't blame u for being less attracted to him lmao)

Now, this does NOT dismiss the fact that he sounds literally oblivous to you as a girlfriend/wife.  he should understand that he needs to remember HE HAS A GIRLFRIEND and that you need more to talk about than his PSA 8 Golem & gem mint 10 raichu EX.  that is FULLY on him.  He should be taking you out consistently & still making you feel important, AND prioritizing you, asking YOU about life, about hobbies, etc. and getting excited for YOU as well. seems it's been one sided with you always rooting for him, but not the other way**.**

**after you ask him what he's REALLY doing this for, then you tell him exactly how you feel, what you wrote above.**  tell him you're happy for him pushing this, but that you're also his girlfriend & say you feel less connected to him & want to deepen your relationship further again, because you feel lately it's mostly been about these cards & less about me. Don't be toxic or rude saying this stuff either, just have a gentle conversation.  
(I say this because 98% of females have never had a NORMAL CONVO with their boyfriends, they just yell and nag at them & expect things to magically fix themselves)

let me know if you have a heart to heart w/ him on this & see if this changes anything.

Your feelings are completely valid here. You just had a baby few months ago and your body went through something incredible - of course you're feeling sensitive about these changes. When you tell someone something hurts you and they keep doing it anyway, that's the real problem.

  
The timing makes this especially rough since you're dealing with postpartum changes and probably exhausted from caring for newborn. He might think liking random posts is harmless, but impact on you should matter more than his scrolling habits. You're not overreacting at all.

this whole thing is giving me secondhand stress tbh. like you're putting in all this driving (which is expensive af) and he's complaining about money while you're literally spending gas money to see him every week? that doesn't add up at all

  
the concert ticket thing is weird too - he put them in a card but didn't actually say "hey these are concert tickets for you" so how were you supposed to know what to thank him for in that moment? seems like he set up a situation where you couldn't win

  
i think the biggest red flag here is him denying everything when you brought it up, especially if multiple people are telling same story. like why would your friend and her boyfriend make this drama up? they're trying to stay out of it now which makes sense

  
maybe worth asking yourself if this is how you want communication to work in relationship. if he can't be direct with you about being upset but will talk behind your back to friends, that's gonna be exhausting long term

wait i just looked at your account you’re absolutely beautiful im sick that someone would make you not feel beautiful 💔💔

You find a new partner that you're compatible with. She literally told you what it was from the beginning and you still choose to go down this path. Find a new path with a new person

Your feelings are completely valid here. You just had a baby few months back and your body went through massive changes - of course you're feeling vulnerable about this stuff. When you've clearly told him it bothers you and he keeps doing it anyway, that's the real problem. It's not about him finding other people attractive, it's about him ignoring how his actions affect you when you're already in such a fragile state emotionally and physically.

i completely agree… you can’t just hope she’ll turn into someone she’s not and then get upset if she doesn’t 🤷‍♀️

period!! i completely agree. weak lustful men are not who we should be basing how we feel about ourselves on.

hey girl i understand how you feel. a little over a year ago i found out my bf had a secret porn addiction (yikes). he’s since been so much better and completely changed as a person, but i’ve still struggled with my confidence. our relationship outside of that is completely perfect and that’s what hurt me the most, but what i’m reading from your story is that you may not have the best relationship to begin with; him throwing things from years ago in your face (i’m assuming you were 16/17 at the time of whatever it was), politics not aligning, and him not taking responsibly for his actions. i didn’t see you say he apologized and that speaks very loudly on him. i feel that politics not aligning with how insane things are right now is a big red flag because that’s a basic moral compass at this point, and if he is lacking empathy for certain groups of people i would be scared. you’re also insanely young and there’s so many people out there, don’t be afraid to start over. i’m still with my boyfriend and our relationship has grown so much in the best ways, but that’s because outside of that we had literally no problems. my confidence has gone up since then because i put myself first and didn’t rely on him or anyone for validation on how i feel about myself. self confidence is a long and hard journey and we all get insecure, but you need to love yourself. i’m wishing you the best!! btw it’s HOT GIRL SUMMERRRR!!!!! so get rid of that hobo and be hot and have fun you’re 20 go live your life for you!!

Update: I now know what I have to do but I don’t know if I can do it. I love this girl so so much and she’s expressed once or twice that she’s terrified of the idea of us ever breaking up. But I know I have to break it off and explain why without leaving her without knowing why we’re breaking up. I know that I have to make this decision and stand by it but I’m genuinely terrified - I’m even sobbing as I’m typing this out. Somebody please help

So give it a month or three to think about it and live with it and make sure you’re making the right decision, either way. But don’t wait forever.

you're setting yourself up properly and he's acting like you're some disaster waiting to happen. the way he's treating your career decisions like they're personal failings is really concerning, especially when you're clearly handling your responsibilities and have actual timelines that work for your field

  
sounds more like he wants control than accountability from you

“Self esteem is the esteem you give yourself!” -Kat Williams. 

For real though, you have to love yourself and stop attaching yourself to worth to what a man does on social media.

I thought about you recently... we had more and more conflicts about accountability. For my next birthday, he ghosted me the day after, saying he needed some space. After 1.5 months of silence, I went to his mom's place to talk. He told me he was feeling depressed and didn't find me enough supportive. But he was reassured that he still matteted to me. So we decided to try again when i will come back from a trip. Sadly i broke my ankle, really badly. I came back to my country and we were still talking every day. I waited for him to come to see me, I was feeling vulnerable and sad. I finally asked him to come and he answered "yes next week". And I realized I was begging for love and initiatives. I was feeling so abandoned and I decided to express my needs. That I needed someone present, someone who has his life sort out, and that I can't imagine a future like that. And added that i still love him. He ghosted me again. I'm just so broken right now. Didn't expect that much violence

Don't beg someone for love or commitment. He's wasting your time and treating you as placeholder. Maybe he really does have past relationship issues but that's not your problem to solve nor should it be something you experience the consequences of. I think it's more likely a manipulation to get you to put up with his fuck boi behavior.

Leave. Sex is part of life, some women have tendency of acting like its not mandatory but us men we need it. So leave or you'll resent her eventually.

OP, I hope you see this comment and take the last line seriously. It's good advice.

Both comments in this chain are just a matter of perspective and preference. For some people their ideal partner would offer them footrubs and oral everyday, for others they'd feel smothered and objectified. Some like their lobster too buttery, others prefer it dry.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I think this gentleman and I need to have a beer. This feels all too the same.

You want different things and you're better off not hoping she'll become someone different.

my brotha, I've been there. this is very important.  I felt the same exact way in my last relationship.

in your position, you #1 priority in your life should be focusing on YOU, even in a relationship.  you need to spend time figuring out the best ways that you can start making money & going all in to pursue it. 

don't let any woman be the one that holds you back from pushing yourself.  if she's the one for you, she will push you to explore different business opportunities, job opportunities, hell even trying some random entrepreneur, influencer, online wifi money stuff.

you need to make yourself the priority in that relationship.  literally tell her that you are making it your mission to find work/start a business and pursue it with all your heart.  tell her you'll need time to do it, but find your mission brotha.  and push it.

  
another important tip here though:

if she's to clingy & doesn't give you enough time to do it, OR if you yourself can't lock in while in that relationship, it may be time to put the relationship on the backburner. 

trust me bro, I learned this the hard way in my previous relationship.  I was with a toxic, manipulative woman who never gave me the space I needed to pursue my own goals/dreams/businesses, and I became a shell of a man who never lived up to his potential, still broke as fuck, only living to please this woman, and not myself.  it HAD to end for me personally because she fully held me back.  make YOUR situation different. take control of YOU, communicate everything with her, and get yourself on track.  Don't be me. (years ago, i'm chillin now lol) 

  
all love bro

dude this is tough but you gotta be real with yourself here. you've been together a year and a half and she's been clear about her boundaries from day one. she's not gonna magically change her mind about sex, and you can't keep hoping she will.

  
sounds like you two are incompatible in a pretty fundamental way. sexual compatibility matters in relationships, and there's nothing shallow about that. you can love someone deeply but still not be right for each other long term.

  
either you accept this is how things will be and stop expecting anything different, or you both need to find people who match your needs better. staying and hoping she'll change isn't fair to either of you.

An ice cream cone and a nice walk in a park, popcorn at a free concert, a picnic, a single flower, I could go on and on. Tell him you need to be “courted” a little. You can even suggest he come to this sub and ask for advice about free or very low cost dates. But TELL HIM.

She’s too old to be behaving like that

Look up asexuality.

It's possible your gf loves you and may never, ever want to have sex with you. She's told you this outright early on, but because you want sex, it seems like you continue to secretly dream of when it will eventually happen.

Have a conversation and make sure you understand what the other wants and needs. If you want a relationship with sex she may be the wrong woman for you, and you the wrong man for her.

Maybe the signs you think you're giving are not enough for him to grasp. Men are like that sometimes (this man included). He might also be worried about damaging the work dynamic and friendship you have established (again, from experience) and may have had a previous relaionship born out of work / friendship that went sour and doesn't want to lose you. 

But life is so short, so you might as well try. But just make it easy for him maybe? Maybe invite him to hang out in your city one weekend? Brush your leg up against his at a dinner...Some subtle sign.

So - you are friends with a girl and you're not banging her?

From what you’ve described, but only you know for sure, none of us know him.

Chefs keep odd hours in the best of times. Personalities who can be heads of kitchens are tough to live with most of the time. Unless you see something on the horizon that means his job that got busy in January is going to slow down significantly, what do you think will change?

The pain from his father passing will eventually fade, but his emotional availability and physical presence probably won’t improve unless he’s showing real effort to do so.

You’ve got to decide if you want to wait to find out or end things and look for something better.

He’s been cheated on so he doesn’t want to guilt of messing around on you because you aren’t “serious”.  It’s either that or he’s using you as a placeholder. After 2 months of regular dating like that, his refusing to be official just tells you that you wasted 2 months.

damn what a mess

  
she prob misses you but cant trust you again

  
block her number if you actually wanna move on

I hope so too! And thanks for your kindness. 

If you don’t mind sharing, how did you overcome anxious attachment?

Part of me feels like I should just be brave and ask him, but I’m worried about the timing.

Unfortunately I suspect this is another symptom of the trauma he got from being cheated on. 

He's scared of being cheated on. As a result he is dragging out the 'talking' phase, keeping it a situationship so that he can bail easily if he needs to. Mind you in the meantime he acts like he is in a relationship, he's also jealous and pressuring you on that front, so he basically gets everything he would in a relationship without the formality. 

And yeah, that sucks. But more than that it speaks to the reality that this is what dating him will be. It will be jealousy, it will be him being wishy washy, it will be him saying he feels bad for projecting the bad stuff he went through onto you... but continuing to do it with zero actual reflection or adjustment anyway. 

I suggest you pull away. It's pretty clear he can't give you what you want and worse, you're seeing that he will pressure you into stuff like this early. Dating formally won't make him drop his guard, it will actually make it worse.

I know you're not, but take it from someone who also had anxious attachment - it's very toxic and damaging. More than you realize when you're the one suffering from it. I hope therapy helps!

There’s no one on God’s green earth I want to talk to all day long. I have two wonderful adult daughters and a best friend who are funny, smart, delightful, all the good things and I don’t even want to talk to them all the time. 

You’re giving her far more attention than any reasonable person would expect or want. Stop. Either set firm boundaries or find someone who is secure and not controlling.

It’s the satisfaction that comes from a sense that some powerful “they” don’t want you to know something, and  now you’ve been provided with a hidden truth and a way to overcome some perceived harmful force. That feeling becomes addictive, and individuals that enter the pipeline can quickly get sucked in by their brains trying to get that next “hit”, essentially.

It's not unrealistic at all. Revisit the conversation and let him know exactly the difference between committed bf and "guy I'm talking to." A committed bf gets to ask you to cut off other men romantically; a guy you're talking to doesn't. A committed bf gets sleepovers, gets to see you x times per week, etc. A guy you're talking to doesn't. Hold firm to your boundaries. 

Give him a general timeline that you find acceptable to decide: "to me, if you're not sure about me after 3 months, then you simply don't like me. I'm not going to let you take up my time if that's true, because my goal is to have a bf who adores me." Honestly, it sounds like you're already at the limit and it may be time to tell him goodbye. Do NOT let him trick you into thinking he's going to change his mind much later down the line. That being said, depending on how much you've seen each other thus far, it may genuinely be too early. Think about that.

Do you really think that’s the case?

You're putting up with a lot here. I think it's really selfish of him to not put your feelings and needs first. Especially while pregnant. He sounds like way too much work.

This feels like it toe. It was a test of some sort. Based on your response, I can't tell of you passed or failed, but these type of people will never stop playing games and testing you. It feels like a test to see if you'd step up, and give her whatever attention she was craving. If could be a test to see if you're dating material, etc. I'm neurodivergent and I absolutely can not stand this shit. I always have been good at sticking my foot in my mouth and accidentally calling this shit out. Never intentionally, but often bulldoze the way through someone else's story set up lol. Just take a couple questions to shake em lose. Be wary of a pattern and pull back a little on the friendship and howich of what you give. The truth never stays hidden for long. I'd say orange flag,  be aware, be watchful

He wants all the benefits of a relationship with you, with none of the commitment.  I'm assuming you have some sort of sexual relationship, if you've stayed at his house.

This guy is wasting your time. Be done with this, immediately. 

Also, life tip. Guys who use their alleged past relationship trauma as a reason to behave badly towards you....should be an immediate no.

It sounds like he’s not really considering you in all of this. At best he’s taking you for granted, at worst he doesn’t care.

It's just a spiral of anxiety my dude.

If you've got good communication with her, then I recommend you do what I did when I started experiencing something similar in my earlier 20's, I explained "Hey, I've been over stressing myself out with performance anxiety, unfortunately simply acknowledging what it is doesn't solve it, would you mind if when we fool around later, if I struggle to get as hard as I'd like of we try to do PIV, could we just switch to filling around, touching, kissing licking etc etc, and then if my boner happens, awesome, and if it doesn't, we act totally chill about it. Oh and please refrain from asking am I okay, or if there's anything wrong with you, I can assure you there isn't, I just need to pull myself out of my head, and once we've had a bit of success I'm sure it'll no longer be an issue."

Or something along those lines, that helped me.

Two months is plenty of time to figure out if you want to be exclusive with someone, especially when you're already acting like a couple. The whole "too soon" thing while simultaneously getting jealous about other guys and wanting you to post him is some serious mixed signals bullshit

  
Past trauma sucks but it doesn't give him the right to keep you in relationship limbo while getting all the benefits. Either he wants to be with you or he doesn't - the "I need more time to be sure" excuse gets old real quick when he's already acting possessive

  
You're being completely reasonable here. Setting a boundary about not dragging this out past 3 months is smart because otherwise this could turn into one of those situationships that goes nowhere for years

I don’t think I would be happy spending every evening alone for the next 20 or 30 years.

At the same time, I think his current situation is more complicated than just his job. His workload became much heavier around January, he’s been under a lot of stress since then, and he recently lost his father.

What makes it harder is that I do have questions about our relationship and where we stand, but I don’t feel like I can ask them right now. Because of what he’s going through, and because he has made it clear that he wants to process things on his own, I don’t want to add more weight to what he’s already carrying.

So I feel stuck between wanting answers and wanting to give him the space he needs.

You ain’t getting any younger. If you’ve got a genuine connection maybe pursue it.

Even if you guys were all possible alcoholics, the frequency and intensity that she's lecturing you is excessive. You all need to shut it down and do not entertain the conversation. Don't let her give speeches. Tell her you are done having the same judgy conversation over and over. If she won't stop, don't invite her over.

we both watch porn idk something to consider but he has no issues getting hard or finishing. he can get hard from a hug.

So he’s going to be doing this a while. Music is way less stable and much more stressful, and TBH if you aren’t self sustaining as a musician by your mid twenties it’s unlikely you’ll ever reach a point where you can make it a career. 

You didn’t address the late nights thing, but it can be incredibly lonely if you’re eating meals alone and spending evenings by yourself for months or years on end. Are you okay with that for the next 20 or 30 years? If he ever opens his own restaurant it’ll be worse.

he is very physically attracted to me. times that i’m annoyed and don’t want to have sex because it’s not being initiated the way i want i just let him cum on my ass while i’m on my phone. it takes less than a minute. very exciting for him very boring for me.

She is not the problem here

no issue getting hard and he is OBSESSED with my body. i guess his version of initiating is saying “i want to do you” which ive expressed is. it the biggest turn on for me. i have asked him to just start foreplay. ie playing with my p*ssy in bed or somewhere spontaneous like in the car in a long drive. he never does it… it just seems like he needs me to be the initiator otherwise we just watch tv or go about life without sex. it is very confusing.

I don’t think he’ll change careers. He’s invested a huge amount of time and effort into becoming an executive chef, and both of us know that stepping down from that level would be financially difficult.

The only other thing he’s ever talked about wanting to do is music, but realistically that would require money and stability first.

I think money is especially important to him because of his childhood experiences. He’s always been very focused on making sure he’s financially secure and responsible.

I think it would be helpful to have a literal depiction of your response in order to make a judgment. You can normally tell a persons true intentions in a "im just joking " based on when/how the "joke" collapses.

If you aren't offering her monetary assistance but forcing her to answer questions...it could be she is trying to manipulate you. 

So maybe take a look at the convo

Girl, he invited you to sleep in his bed and you spent time in hot tub together - that's not exactly subtle workplace behavior. Three months is long enough to figure out what he wants, and the fact that he's single now but still hasn't made a move is pretty telling

  
I'd probably bring it up one more time just for my own peace in mind, but honestly the hot tub situation would have been the perfect moment and he didn't take it. Sometimes people just enjoy the attention and flirtation without wanting to actually do anything about it

and he always acts like he gets it and tries to validate my feelings with no change

How about this, IF you can afford a last minute ticket, pick a day that she goes to work, grab your TV and sounds, put them in the storage, and make a yellow brick road to the airport, and be done! 

Im glad that the things I am saying, snd others, make sense to you, and may even be helpful because your mind isnt working right, right now, you may not have thought of it yet, there is fantastic advice and info in here, relationships are hard, and you are 'listening' as far as we can tell...

My personality is way opposite, I have this obsession about living a peaceful existence, and not letting anybody invade it with bs...NOBODY...I have an ex, even knew him since elementary, 3 months in, I found out he was a HUGE liar, I didnt even blink 1 full blink, had his ass in my vehicle dropping him at one of those pay by the week places (I live on NV), in my home, eating my mom's home cooking, being treated like family...GTFO, TODAYY, SIR! That was 2014 he was 44...grown ass idiot

When it comes to cheaters and liars, they will not have my ass losing sleep every time they are out of my sight because Im wondering if they are out cheating, or, every time they tell me something, Im stressed, wondering if they are lying again, I'd rather mourn the relationship, snd send them on their way, away from me..people will have you behaving unlike yourself, and not in a good way, if you accept their shit behavior, so...NAH, and Im not holding a discussion about why you did it, it happened, we know it, i dont like it, so, I'll go

Just warding this for later since my GF is the same as you and it's driving both of us crazy

depression is contagious in relationships and it's not selfish to prioritize your own wellbeing. you can love someone deeply and still recognize when being with them is slowly destroying you. the fact he broke up with you before during a similar episode shows this might be a pattern you'll keep cycling through.

Yes, I do. I’d taken accountability for that when that incident happened as well. I hope I can work through these issues in time to preserve this relationship because I truly do value this person a lot.

You don't have to be harsh and rude about it. But it's also okay to want him to be fitter and you just need to tell him about that, assure him that you like him as a partner and see future with him as well; that you'll make everything you can to support him and help him with achieving something.

Ok, well, people have imperfections. No one has flawless skin or perfect proportions. As you age, things will change. Maybe assess the reason why you feel this way. If it’s too much social media then take a break.

Lying isn’t great, but you can see why he would think it was a better choice than telling you the truth, right?

Okay, that’s actually really helpful advice. Thanks a lot. I’ll try to create a more free environment in the relationship.

You said you don’t want to hurt him and it’s valid, but look at how you’re hurting yourself… It’s not selfish at all to put yourself first, especially with a useless man like this. He will get over it

Thank God you have a husband like that—it could have been a very unpleasant scenario instead. Women make things so much more difficult. Be more solution-oriented and free-spirited, and everything will work out.

I completely agree with that, and I’ve started therapy a week ago to work on it. However, I did not fret about the middle school ex, I fret about him lying about it. I think sometimes lies about innocuous things make you overthink whether there was something they were hiding because it seemed like such a silly thing to lie about. My grilling in the relationship got significantly worse after that lie.

Executive Chef’s work late. Is there any chance in the future he takes a less stressful job with more manageable hours? Living together won’t help much if he’s working until midnight.

i don’t think i would ever tell him this, i feel its very inappropriate, i will continue to talk to him because i feel that my emotional connection to him overrides this most of the time

You’re going to drive good partners away with this kind of anxiety. Grilling him all the time, fretting about elementary school friends, and just your general mistrust in dating will not get better if you don’t do the work individually.

I would die for this kind of affection and attention

You shouldn't be with someone if all you want to do is change them to fit your aesthetic. If he wants to change in the future, he can but for now he should be with someone that loved him 100% from the start, not 50% and then changed him to fit the 100%.

I'll have you know, I don't spread my sheets for just any friend!

"Shut the fuck up" is a full sentence.

Thank you. And thankfully, drug use has never been an issue with him.

Honestly, I think I could live with it. A big part of my anxiety comes from how little time we get to spend together at the moment. I feel like a lot of these feelings would be easier to manage if we were living together.

The problem is that both of us still have quite a lot of time left on our current housing contracts, so that’s not really an option right now.

That kind of change comes from within and it'd be selfish to ask him to stick around until you've decided you changed enough to actually like him for him. Let him go, do some self growth and then try again. He deserves that much respect.

You are young and fit and it’s understandable to want someone that fits your lifestyle- there’s nothing wrong w that- you can also stay fit as you age. Try to encourage him to work out w you- so many things can be changed- it takes time, hard work and patience. Get him to lift weights- do it with him.

People who test others are toxic.  Dont put up with that.

Yeah that takes a specific type of personality, both to exist as and to live with. It’s unlikely he’ll do anything else unless he burns out. Also, be aware that drug abuse is common in kitchen work. Is that something you can live with if it never gets better, or at least won’t until he fully crashes out?

Don’t date someone you find repulsive… I feel like that should be pretty common knowledge. No one would willingly date someone who thought about their body like this. Let him go so he can find someone who can truly appreciate his big booty self

I feel I should be able to feel attracted too.

Really reflect on how odd this is. Of course you should feel attracted to your partner, why is this being framed as if you are saying something controversial?

Because look at how many ways you sort of force yourself to pursue this. You didn't have an emotional connection but insisted on giving it time, you don't have a physical one but now seem to want to grit your teeth through it, like why do you feel like the goal here is to get yourself comfortable dating him as if you have no other choice?

my soon to be boyfriend 

Just stop now. Don't drag this out any more. You don't have to be entirely open about why, just say you've been thinking about it and you don't want to pursue the relationship and that you wish him well.

This whole dynamic screams emotional manipulation - a 39 year old putting people in "friend jail" and having everyone else fall in line is wild. Your partner being close to this group complicates things but you shouldn't have to walk on eggshells around someone who weaponizes the silent treatment, especially when your own birthday got collateral damage

One thing I probably should have mentioned is that his workload became significantly heavier around January, and he’s been under a huge amount of stress since then.

He’s also an extremely responsible person. He hates taking time off because he worries things will go wrong without him. One of his biggest frustrations is coming back after a day off and finding that the kitchen wasn’t run properly in his absence.

Sometimes I think he puts an enormous amount of pressure on himself, which is part of why I’ve tried so hard to be understanding.

You don’t have to date him

yes i feel that emotional attraction matters way more, i want to change, i don’t wanna be shallow because looks are so temporary, also I would never try to destroy his self worth or comment on those things its just hard for me when he comments on those things himself, i never really know what to say back.

Just tell him the truth and explain yourself. Date him, because whats inside is much more important

If i’m understanding correctly… by “proper date” you just meant spending more than an hour together?? and yes your feelings are valid and meaningful. You feel the way you do for a reason and it won’t get better by ignoring it without changing anything. Your feelings don’t go away by putting them to the side and they need to be address with him so you can either work on making the relationship work for both of you or decide to move on

You should date someone you’re attracted to- but, understand, bodies and people change. Hair falls out and gets gray, gravity will eventually get everyone. You will change dramatically w passing years too- wrinkles, stretch marks, sagging boobs/ butt- relationships have to be built on so much more than aesthetics. If you really like him, get him to go to the gym/ workout w you. Just don’t torture him- if you can’t get past certain features- leave him- but in one piece- don’t destroy his self worth.

Well, yeah, it is shallow, but it is what it is. You said that physical appearance is very important to you — referring to your own body and to the people around you. Placing that much emphasis and value on physical appearance is indeed shallow, but it doesn't necessarily mean you're a bad person.

Anyway, you don't want to date this guy. Well then, don't. It's that simple.

You are 20 years old, you don't need to commit to relationships that make you unhappy.

Besides, if you've already been in 4 different relationships at this point, then maybe this is indicative of a pattern? Perhaps you shouldn't be rushing into relationships so quickly.

OP, based on your descriptions of sex and attraction, have you ever considered whether you are on the Demisexual, Asexual or Aromantic spectrum?

It sounds like the only time you’re given to ponder your own level of sexual need is when you’re being “punished” for not initiating or reciprocating sexual advances. 

This isn’t a healthy dynamic. Your Husband’s love language may be physical touch, but that doesn’t mean he’s entitled to expect it from his partner. Your love languages and needs are equally important.

I’d highly recommend seeking couples and individual therapy to explore who you are in your relationship, and your relationship with yourself and your own sexuality in a safe space.

its easier to change surface level characteristics than finding someone emotionally and sexually compatible.

take him to the gym with you regularly; suggest/recommend him how to style, bad habits can be refined into discipline, etc.

That’s an incredibly stressful job I’ve heard, and very understandable there would be no phone use possible

You need to decide if this is temporary or a permanent part of his personality and career, and if you can live with it

The above submission has been removed because our AutoModerator has found that your post may be dealing with rape or sexual abuse in some way. If you are seeking direct advice on dealing with such a situation (or are asking if something constitutes rape), we ask that you please post instead to /r/rape, /r/rapecounseling, or /r/secondary_survivors (if someone you know has been abused). These communities have dedicated userbases that can provide and better guarantee the sort of sensitivity, support, and protection that may not be available here in /r/relationships. Please understand that you have done nothing wrong in posting here in the first place. We hope you understand that we are trying to make sure you get the best possible help available and give you the benefit of our experience in moderating this subreddit.  If you believe you are receiving this message in error, please message the moderators for reapproval.

Click here (once) to request reapproval and then click send **once** only.

The reapproval is manual, so send a **single request** only. Multiple requests do not mean faster approval, in fact they may clog the modqueue and result in reapprovals taking even more time.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

What kind of bird brain ass thought process is this? At this point, I don’t care about upbringings, everyone is on social media who posts here, so everyone knows about boundaries and empathy. 

Stop being so disgusting when talking about someone else. Leave him alone, he deserves better.

don't waste his time when you don't actually like him, and are actively disgusted by his body. 

stop being an asshole and leave this poor man alone, so he can find a decent partner who actually loves and likes him.

let the poor man go, he deserves so much fucking better than your shallow bullshit.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

That's because it would make you shallow but it wouldn't be fair to him if you're not into him physically and emotionally. He deserves the chance to find someone that will be both rather than wasting time on someone who's only doing one.

Why are you wasting your time with this girl? Can’t you meet someone local?

ive had like 4 partners

He’s an executive chef at a private club

“All of your past partners” you’re 20! How many can there be? This seems like rage bait.

yes but its hard because I like him emotionally and he is really pressing me on dating, i feel shallow to stop talking to him because of this. But yes you are right ngl

So in the last six months, the two of you have not spent more than an hour together, now and then? Do weeks go  by when you don’t even see him?  He cant hang out all weekend with you, ever?  

That does not sound like a fulfilling relationship.

which overstimulates me to the point where I’m beyond turned off and want to push him away (which I never do because I don’t want to hurt his feelings or unintentionally cause a fight).

Holy shit. This is NOT healthy.

My partner has asked me to try anal, and we have a few times, but honestly, the sensation feels uncomfortable, and again, not enjoyable. He seems to really enjoy it, so I feel awful turning him down, but I feel like my sex drive is already low, and the idea of doing something that makes me uncomfortable causes anxiety.

You are describing scenarios that sound like sexual assault.

You say that you're too scared to admit to him that you are NOT consenting — why? A normal healthy partner who cares about you would stop as soon as they realize they're hurting you. They wouldn't take it personally, they would just ask how they can make you feel more comfortable.

What are you afraid will happen if you tell him that he is hurting you?

He responded by saying that I am hurting him by not being willing to compromise.

Ahhh, so he's a manipulative piece of shit.

You cannot hurt someone by not having sex with them. That is the most ridiculous thing anyone has ever uttered.

I never want to be back in that position where a partner feels they need to go elsewhere to seek fulfillment

Nobody NEEDS to go elsewhere to seek fulfillment.
Listen: Your ex did not cheat on you because you were not a good enough partner; your ex cheated on you because he is a cheater. He is someone who gets off on sleeping with women behind his partner's back. No matter how much you had sex with him, it would not have changed anything, because he was not interested in a monogamous relationship.

He said that not a lot of men would like someone who only does one position, especially long-term.

Your partner is manipulating you. There are lots of people who have missionary sex every single time, and are very happy with that arrangement.

Here's the deal: Your partner is emotionally and sexually abusive. He chose you because, having been traumatized and cheated on in the past, you are very vulnerable and easy to manipulate. You are choosing to stay with someone who hurts you and dismisses your feelings because you have a deep-rooted fear that you are unworthy of real love.

This man does not love you; if he did, he would care when you tell him that you are hurting.

Please, please, PLEASE go see a therapist. You deserve to be more than someone's victim.

I think that’s a fair point.

To be honest, I don’t need big dates or constant texting. I’d be happy just spending time together, even if it’s just lying in bed and talking.

We do text every day, although not very frequently because of his job. And to be fair, when he has some free time, he does occasionally come over and spend an hour or so with me.

I think what I’ve been struggling with is that sometimes I feel like our relationship is the first thing that gets put on hold when life gets difficult.

Sometimes I wonder if I’m being too understanding, or if I just love him enough that I’ve gotten used to putting my own feelings aside.

boy are you going to hate getting older lmao

What is a ‘soon to be boyfriend?’ Haha if you aren’t dating what are we talking about here? Just don’t start dating him. Move on.

How much porn are you consuming? 
Most 20 year old men don't have erection issues....
At 20...I would feel a breeze and get a boner 
I am 61..and don't have this issue

What kind of job does he have?

Two things: 

1) you sound exactly your age.
2) you are not compatible so stop pursuing this.

Im sorry, i was referencing the statements my friend made after 2 months of dating, I completely botched the timeline, I forgot to add it.

Man, I though you said 2 months, sorry. But limerence can sometimes limerence can sometimes take years to wear off.

If you're not attracted to him, don't date him.

You sound pretty defensive about your drinking problem

They’ve been dating for over 2 years now. Could they still have limerence? Mb Lemme rehash the timeline, Ive known them each in HS for all 4 years, they started dating the final year, and it’s been 2 years since.

I feel like you could maybe make it work if it was one or the other: time-consuming job OR withdrawing as a coping mechanism. Neither are easy but could be worked through. Couples don’t need to spend everyday together or constantly text, but it is nice to have a close relationship that centers on fundamentally a friendship. You can’t have that closeness without communication and spending time together because that’s when it’s built. 

Personally I do love communicating with my partner every day about life, joking around, talking through things, being affectionate, showing gratitude, etc. Yes the amount changes based on how busy we are but we genuinely enjoy each other and are friends so we naturally talk to each other and want to hangout. Think about what kind of relationship and partner you want for your future

I am working on it. I started therapy a few days ago after our breakup and patch up. And I did resist the urge to question him about his coworker and told him I trust him. I just decided to bring my concerns here on Reddit because my brain has a hard time discerning between false alarms and real alarms, I’m not a bad person or anything.

People do stupid shit when they’re young. Some of them don’t grow out of it. Spend time with people who make you happy, let them sink or swim on their own

That is bizarre and your reaction is entirely normal. Whether she actually thinks it’s funny or was trying to see how you would react, it shows a weird lack of empathy.

Truthfully, you don’t actually know anything about her. Unless she offers an explanation that makes sense accompanied by an apology, you’d be better off dropping this friendship.

The odds that this will turn out to be an ongoing issue are very small.  Just take your time, and don't get too up in your own head.

They’re experiencing limerence, it’ll eventually wear off.

We text pretty much every day, although not very frequently. His job doesn’t really allow him to use his phone much, so that’s something I’ve always understood.

When I say “a proper date,” I don’t mean anything elaborate. Honestly, I’d be happy just lying in bed together and spending time with each other. I don’t need expensive dates or big plans.

To be fair, when he does have some free time, he occasionally comes over to my place and spends an hour or so with me.

I think the reason I sometimes feel pushed aside is that whenever work or personal issues come up, our time together tends to be the first thing that gets postponed. I understand why, but after a while it can feel lonely.

It means get the fuck out of there, like yesterday.

First time jitters are way more common than you think - your body just hit the panic button when things escalated. The fact that you were fine during foreplay shows everything works, your brain just went into overdrive mode

  
Try focusing less on the performance aspect and more on just enjoying being with her. Maybe spend a few sessions just exploring without any pressure to "finish" - takes the weight off and lets you get comfortable with the whole experience. Your girlfriend sounds super understanding which is honestly half the battle right there

I think you need to deal with your anxious attachment before you end up single. Poor guy is on eggshells because of something that is 100% your issue.

She wants to see how much she can manipulate the truth with you, maybe to see how much she can lie to you and get you to help her based on lies.

Its hard to say.  How much time do you spend together?  How often do you talk/text? What do you consider “a proper date”?  Can you give examples of whats going on when you feel like your relationship is pushed aside?

To be fair, I feel the same way sometimes. However, when he has some free time, he does occasionally come over to my place and spend an hour or so with me

Your anxiety is literally creating the exact behavior you're afraid of. When someone knows they're being watched for any small "suspicious" thing they start acting weird even when doing completely normal stuff like getting tea with a coworker

  
He's walking on eggshells because you've trained him that innocent things get turned into interrogations. The nervousness you're picking up on is probably just him bracing for another round of questions about perfectly normal workplace interactions

You don’t know her very well after 8 months of chatting online. That was really uncool of her and I wouldn’t give her another chance to trick me. Just don’t believe anything she says ever again. If you can stay casual friends under those circumstances then great. If not, she’s proven that she thinks lying is a funny joke so you’re under no obligation to stay friends.

I think a little gratitude is in order. Many women would love that attention, don’t take it for granted.

I fail to see the joke. I’d stay far away.

it has been a point of friction for us since day one.

Why have you been here for 22 years.

I don't want to give you a complex, but is there any reason you can think of that she might want you on the dl?

You've been together for over half a year and official for 4 months, but she doesn't want people to know who you are and she doesn't want to brag openly about you on social media.

Is she ashamed for some reason?

No one would judge her for dating someone new at this point so it seems like there's the reason she gives you and then the real reason she's keeping close to her chest.

Actually I’m sorry. I don’t mean to act like that. We just brought out the worst in each other. Good luck.

Major red flags. Since you only know her online, ghost her.

I think she likes u, and she wanted to get ur reaction 
sometimes girls will try to prank u this way only to notice ur reaction

Pregnancy is not a prank, bro

My spreadsheets have categories for trustworthy friends and she just got moved to a different column.

Great advice — what if he responds back that “my weed usage affects you more than it affects me.” This is often the feedback I get … that I AM the one more impacted by the usage because I’m the one that judges and shuts down… any advice for that? Better communication on my part?

I handle things myself too. But 6 months no date when both of you don't have kids is way too long.

Just ask him how he feels about it, 5.5 months is decent chunk of time should be able to communicate freely.

That's a very weird thing to do.

Honestly, my impression is that she's trying to see how you would respond. Would you offer to let her move in and you would support her? Would you offer to marry her? It seems more like figuring out how she could use you.

This isn't the sort of thing people joke about.

It says she’s immature. I’d be annoyed.

missed connections happen but going back to the same store hoping to run into someone can come off pretty intense - if it happens naturally again maybe just a simple "hey" works better than overthinking it

If every interaction comes with sexual expectations attached, eventually it can start feeling like pressure instead of connection.

Uhmmm no I haven’t actually. Maybe i should, but i don’t wanna keep digging after he’s told me not to…

In terms of dating I wouldn’t even call this an age gap. You’re good.

Literally just go say hi. Ask her about something she's wearing. Take genuine interest in her.

It’s not a large enough age gap to matter.

You've known each other since youre 18, right?

Has there ever been any time in your life where you had desire for any person? 

Do you know about the 5 love languages? Depriving someone of physical touch when that's their love language is going to cause friction. And if he ever catches on how not desired he is, it might end your relationship.

Physical touch is not sex. After all, he doesnt need sex from friends and family to feel loved. Does he hug others? Put his arms around someone, touch their shoulder when walking away? How does he show physical touch to others?

Yeah, suffocated isnt great language but as one introvert to a (presumed) other, you should apologize for using that language and really try to explain it in a way she might understand better such as batteries. 

Everyone has a personal social battery of energy- for introverts it trends a smaller capacity. That doesnt mean less quality, of course, it just means it runs out quicker. My own introverted self puts on most of my battery to get through the work day. Between an open work space I share with 5 others to being at the beck and call of John Q. Public, 8 hours can be a solid 80% of my social battery. Cool, I have 20% left after work, so I go to the store and get my dinner stuff and theres someone I know who wants to catch up right there on aisle 3- there goes a little more. Drop a package off- stand in line with crying kids and calls on speakerphone and crying kids on speakerphone... Get home, neighbor wants to complain about the other neighbor and talk about how much rain we did/didnt get and can I believe all these mosquitos this year?.... and there goes a little more. Pretty soon, I dont have much left at all and here's the thing: I love my partner. Favorite person in the whole world- hecking love that guy. 

I want to give the rest of my battery to him- he deserves as much battery as I can give. To have conversations that are meaningful and interesting or even just do stuff together like watching something or playing a game... but at some point, my battery is still going to run out. Hes going to share about something he truly cares about and Im going to feel that mental wall come up, the one that keeps me from being able to process what hes trying to share bc Ive already been inundated and haven't taken a moment to process my day or thoughts or emotions. 

 So what do I do? Ive only spent a good hour or two of Quality Time but its bedtime and Ive got another day of hearing fish stories and cabin woes and lake lamentations from complete strangers tomorrow and I gotta give them my best "people person" facade bc I take pride in my work. Do I stay up a little later and spend more time with him? Okay, sure- maybe here and there. But if spending more time with him isnt serving him bc Im not focused on what Im doing with him, and its not serving me bc Im feeling strained and overtired socially, then who is it serving? If my battery is at 5% and I dont put it on the charger for long enough, its not gonna get through the next day. For you to give the best part of your batteries to the person/people you care about, you MUST recharge them. 

I said all of that to say- the most important part is that your partner understands your batteries (and you, theirs), AND RESPECTS THEM. She will either understand or she wont- she will be willing to find compromise or she wont. The right one will. Good luck!

As I told another commenter I've talked about past relationships with her, but I know she would not support contacting her. So I'm not going to. I think I knew what the prevailing opinion would be, I guess I just needed to hear it. Better that I get on here and bounce it off some folks who will give me an honest answer rather than do something foolish on impulse.

You don’t sound very compatible. 

I don’t imagine this dynamic only showed up *after* the wedding?

This is a communication issue. You two aren't particularly compatible when it comes to sex and how you display affection for each other so you need really good communication to overcome these issues. 

You've been together a long time, so he either accepts the status quo or he doesn't. How do *you* express your love and appreciation towards him?  Acts of service? Care taking? I am the more physically affectionate one in my relationship and when I expressed my disappointment that I dont feel my husband shows his affection for me enough it really hurt his feelings. He then outlined all the little things he does every day with me in mind to make my day better. It really opened my eyes to what he values in a relationship, and he let me knows it means a lot to him when I verbally express my acknowledgement of his acts of service. It made a huge difference in our marriage.

I mean have you asked him afterwards, something you could discuss maybe a few days later to try to get some insight what was going through his head.   
Probably not much point trying get in when he's in this shut off/grumpy state.

I would start by experimenting on your own with what actually makes you feel good. I find girls don't masturbate as much as men do, but that's where I would start. Maybe certain sex toys will help. figure out certain angles that work better, certain kinds of stimulation. He doesn't have to be there for this, just experiment on your own. Once you know exactly what it is that feels good, talk to him about what you've been trying to figure out, and coach him through it. No need to get overwhelmed, it's just a matter of figuring out the right angles/pressure etc.

Speaking as a parent who had an 18 year old son (he/we have money), he was not using his money to take a girl out to restaurants, dates, movies, experiences. That is stuff you do when you have a good job. No one should be expecting an 18 year old to spend a lot of money on dates.

It is more about spending time with each other.

it’s not your job to fix him unfortunately. i wish that you could because in all seriousness i have been where you are before, and i understand what you are feeling. ultimately though, it is up to him if he wants to get out of this and make the improvements needed. severe depression like what you are describing requires attention from a mental health professional most of the time. you’re not a therapist, nor do you have the abilities to help him the way that he needs:/ you can support him yes, but ultimately the real change is going to come from him and working with mental health professionals. i know that this sucks to hear, but the sooner that i excepted this with my past partner, i felt so much peace. i can tell that you love him a lot, and really this is up to you, but you do not have to sacrifice your mental health for this relationship. it is okay to recognize that you love someone very much, while also acknowledging that you need to distance yourself from them because it might be what is best for both of you to improve. sometimes part of loving someone is letting them go.

I have asked both times, and both times I’ve been told nothing’s wrong, and to stop asking. He’s said something along the lines of «stop asking, or you’ll annoy me». So i’ve stopped asking cause i want to show him that i’m appreciative, and not make him feel like i’m not enjoying his plans. I also just want to have a peaceful day/trip

based on just this post you guys don't sound very compatible romantically or sexually. what made you want to get married?

I don't know, from this it sounds like you're maybe not attracted to him. Ups and downs in libido happen but if it's been like this pretty much the whole relationship that's what it looks like.   

Or it's the fact that he's smothering you with sexual attention. You never get the space to actually get in the mood mentally, don't even get the chance to miss him or want him because he's on you like a dog every chance he gets. And you're not into the stuff he's doing in the first place, so sex for you is him getting off on your body and you pretending to enjoy it, right?   
This dynamic is only getting one person horny.   
That month he stopped initiating, did it feel like a relief? Like you were finally getting a break?

I appreciate everyone's input, and the overwhelming opinion is that I should just let it be and not contact her. I kind of thought that would be the case, I guess I just needed to hear it.

So you aren’t discussing it with her because you want to be able to do something she wouldn’t want you to do?

Does that sound like something a good husband would do, to you? Because to me it sounds like “fuck what my wife wants, I do what I want, and I’ll lie and hide things from her to that end”. No?

Different people really do show love in completely different ways and it sounds like you two are just wired differently around physical stuff - maybe look into having a conversation about love languages and how yours might be more about quality time or acts of service instead

Abusers will lie to justify their abuse. "No, this isn't toxic, this is just how relationships work."

I'm twenty years older than you and have been with my husband for twelve years. Take it from me: what your girlfriend is asking of you is NOT reasonable.

I've talked to her about past relationships and marriages but I don't believe she'd support me contacting that woman.

I appreciate that, i’ve felt crazy both times. Or very torn, but to me it’s unimaginable to not wish my partner happy birthday on his birthday!

It's not just those on Reddit who would be concerned about the age gap. It's  basically anyone over 30. I know you think you're all grown up. Most people your age do. That's why I said you're going to feel differently about this when you're 33.

Honestly, still keep an eye out for it. It's a very very slippery pipeline from granola health influencer to anti-science psuedo-natural crap conspiracy theorist. IDK WHY but it is.

Have you asked him about why he gets like this? It's definitely odd if he's doing all this to celebrate your birthday and then shutting down emotionally when the time comes, it's worth a "why"?    

Maybe he's mentally draining himself. He's making all these plans and putting a lot of pressure on himself to make it a perfect birthday trip, maybe a lot of anxiety around that he doesn't show openly. When the day comes he's emotionally exhausted and this is the result.

Thank you very much this is really rational and solid advice. I am definitely going to try again for conversation once he comes out of it. I dont really know what to do during this other than withdraw myself but ill try to be more present even if its painful to be around that behavior. My idea is I didnt want to enforce that its ok by staying until he returns. And I kinda want to protect myself and him cause I feel like crying and im all tense when I dont leave the area hes in. I feel like any emotional reaction from me will make it worse. But keeping it inside doesn't feel good at all. Ill try to be patient with it. I just feel lonely and unloved more than anything even though I know he does love me very much. I miss him alot at this moment.

they all just say “sounds like she’s basically your girlfriend” and i agreed, but then he said “but we both know that’s not our situation”

So he heard you had issues with guys not committing, so he agreed to be exclusive-bang buddies so you don't get wise and stop him having sex with you. No "fully boyfriend" about it, he's fine being an exclusive situationship.

You already know it's a string along, and if he has such "concerns" that he can't even date you, you'll never get what you want from him. I'm sorry.

I would stop inviting her to things, or spending time around her. I’m a recovering alcoholic; I know how bad it can get. But people who don’t have problems with alcohol—and it sounds like most of you don’t—shouldn't be judged because some of us can’t moderate. Sometimes when people give something up they become crusaders. It isn’t enough that they changed; they have to make everybody else change. It doesn’t sound like your sister is mentally well. I think the only thing you can do is to reduce the time you spend with her, or cut it out altogether.

I think as blunt as somebody can be his mental health is his to fix and you should not be his punching bag so to speak..  by all means be supportive but he also needs to take steps in doing the right thing.. is he seeking help or taking any medication for his issues as if he isnt he really should be as his issues are not just gonna go away and its gonna have and is.. having a negative effect on you.. speak to him about this how it makes you feel. And also try and convince him to seek some help

He said it was okay, and I am not a big Redditor, so I thought people would respond to the post instead of one part of my relationship.

Not even feeling comfortable talking to your wife about it should have been the first clue how dumb this thought was. Keep that as a barometer line for the future to indicate when you should throw an idea away.

dude putting together a nice weekend doesn't give him a free pass to act distant on your actual birthday - like the bare minimum is saying happy birthday and giving you a hug

I don't know what you were expecting with this post. People are not going to ignore the age gap bc no matter how much you protest, it matters. A 35 yr old should have known how to respond to you. His actions should tell you a lot. 

Ten years from now you are going to think so differently about all of this. Try dating someone closer to your age.

Okay will do. How long have you been dating?

If he doesn't know the answer to that question after 5.5/6 months that's not great.

HAHA. Called it Macy lmao

It’s something I’ve dealt with since I was a child, because this experience was very important, it’s normal for me to overthink

Bro you’re 17, you have your whole life to be married and miserable, move on and don’t commit to someone so controlling

Therapy.  You really need to stop this compulsive overthinking.

You're not the worst. It's perfectly normal to want these things, to want to feel pampered and desired and taken care of. There's no romance in your romantic relationship, so it's natural to start feeling a bit resentful and bitter, and maybe even like you're more friends than partners. The thing is, I definitely don't think this is a money issue but an effort issue. He's not putting in the effort to make you feel special and loved. I'm sure you'd be over the moon if he took you out on a romantic walk in a park, or set up a surprise movie night at home, or maybe took you stargazing. All of these things require 0 money. They just need a little bit of creativity, initiative and some effort to plan. There are plenty of articles and listicles online on no-spend dates. He just has to want to do that for you.   
  
Since you're both so young and I'm assuming don't have a lot of long-term relationship experience, I won't hold it against him. These kinds of things come less naturally to some, and having the stressful year he has (as you've described it), maybe romance is not something that's on his radar or something he's aware is missing from the relationship.   
  
However (and it's a big however), you can't keep this to yourself. It won't get better without a conversation. It will just fester and make you more and more resentful of the lifestyle you have until things boil over into something much uglier and more hurtful. Speak to him about it. You don't even have to make it about money, but as I said above, make it about the effort, the romance, him wooing you and making you feel special. Be honest about how routine is overtaking your lives, and you wish to be excited about each other again. It's an important conversation and an important lesson to learn to communicate the difficult things in the relationship. While he might get a bit defensive, remind him you're a team against a common problem. You're trying to build the connection between you and nurture the intimacy in the relationship because otherwise you might as well just be fwb. I hope it goes well and I hope you manage to work it out.

I would not say I’m not mature enough to date, but this was something really big for me that I was anxious about, something I was going over for a while, and so when it didn’t go according to plan I didn’t know how to feel. He is normal and kind, and I’m not self involved, I’m just a woman who was nervous to profess her feelings for her boyfriend and it went far different from how I planned.. I did not know I would respond like that to the drink, I would not have had it if I knew rhat

INFO: how long have you been together?

Yes, exactly.  What i was trying to say but you said it much nicer. 
Her behavior is so completely normal for her age, but because she's at that age where everything is a Big Deal, she cant see thats he's overreacting in a very asshole way.

I’m sorry you’re dealing with this. I agree with the other comments. You deserve better.

Removing the gap then. He shut down and told you he didn't have the bandwidth to reply to you when you told him you loved him. He's "thinking" about how to let you down easy.

I wish you good luck

You are not mature enough to be dating seriously right now. Especially not much older men. This is the exact reason that age gaps are frowned upon, the power imbalance.  Youre still very young, very emotionally charged, and not self assured. You are seriously considering that you've ruined something over what is just normal awkwardness. You are not able to judge if he's being normal, an asshole, or downright manipulative because you are too self involved, as most young people are. 

You should not be drinking if you cannot know how you'll behave.  Being a lightweight isnt cute or quirky, its dangerous. 

This wasn't a disaster. This is just normal life. You need to date people who are in the same headspace as you.

Personally I have exes who ghosted me and/or otherwise mistreated me I carry a lot of anger about, even though I’m happily in a relationship and I have no wish to get back together with aforementioned exes. Sometimes I ruminate on it. An explanation and an apology would be nice. But that’s just me.

I’m a woman and I’m in my forties for reference.

The petty part of me is imagining leaving my ghoster’s message on read, if I ever got one. lol

K. You'll change your tune in a few years. Hopefully sooner.

We might not be in the same exact place in life, but we have a lot of common interests and values and have a prwttt stable relationship. But this isn’t about our age gap.

Yeah. Dump him. Age gap is too much. He should be with an older woman. What do you two even have in common?

He needed space when you told him that you loved him. No, he's rethinking this. For good reason as well. Probably what he's doing with someone born in 2003.

this is a really tough pattern and I get why it's wearing you down. The thing that stands out to me is how he can communicate perfectly fine about everything else but completely shuts down when you're involved. That's not just a communication style - that's a specific response to conflict with you.

  
I've seen this before and it usually comes down to him not knowing how to process being upset with someone he cares about. At 19, a lot of people haven't learned that you can be mad at someone AND still love them at the same time. So instead of risking saying something hurtful, he just... disappears emotionally. Problem is, the silent treatment ends up being more hurtful than whatever he might have said.

  
The fact that he acknowledged it once but slipped right back into it tells you this is pretty deeply ingrained. You can't logic someone out of an emotional coping mechanism they've probably been using for years. And you withdrawing in response is just creating this toxic cycle where you're both emotionally unavailable to each other.

  
At some point you might need to have the conversation about whether he's willing to actually work on this - like with outside help - because "I'll try to be more aware" clearly isn't cutting it. You shouldn't have to walk on eggshells in your own relationship.

Yes. You are doing this for yourself. It might be ok to reach out to her and ask for that conversation though. People will tell you no. But it's only a request. If someone asked me about the end of a relationship to put them at ease, I guess I would give them my ear. But different strokes.

Of course he is in a different stage of life, this isn’t something that particularly bothers me, and I’d like to keep this conversation about the topic please

He's not into you, he's just around for sex - like any older man taking advantage of a starry-eyed girl with a crush on him. 

The age gap matters. WAKE UP!

He's not that into you, and he certainly wasn't looking for love from you. WAKE UP!

We have a pretty stable relationship, and I wasn’t expecting that reciprocation because I understand people fall in love in different timelines

When I was 35 I certainly wouldn't have been dating a 23 year old. You may be an adult, but he has much more life experience than you and because of that will probably diminish your opinions and experience. He's probably very immature for his age.

Maybe I’m overthinking it, but it’s the first time o really told a guy I love him first, which is making me nervous. He said he appreciates me, but I am wondering what he is thinking about, this is also why I’m anxious. I also want to say he doesn’t make me feel like it’s scary, it’s my own thoughts

You’re going to get a lot of answers from a lot of very young people.

I’m in my mid 40s and I remember clear as day all the shit that went down in high school and the names of the people who mercilessly bullied me and a couple of boys who treated me like garbage.

I’ve had a fee apologies over the last 27 years, one in the last two years.  They were always welcome.

Your teenage years shape you as a person so if someone did something significant to you during that time you literally become a different person because they did that.  Not necessarily better or worse, just different.  That’s why we remember.

I don’t really see the harm in sending her a message but you definitely need to tell your wife first. If you don’t feel comfortable telling her then you can’t do it.

I’d be inclined to a bit of confrontation with the “keeping her options open” because i’ve seen it a lot on similar posts, but the issue is i know that will result in a “you don’t trust me?” kind of thing. And of course i do, but is it wrong to not at the same time considering the circumstances 4 months in?

He was likely never ready to tell you that because this is just fun for him and not much more.

I’m not 13. Please keep this relating to my question

This is not the sort of thing you do behind your wife’s back. The only reason to hide this from her, even just the thoughts, is if she’s unhinged-level insecure/jealous or if you actually do have ulterior motives.

What is the point in being married to someone you can’t be real with?

Lol when he was 25 you were 13.

That age gap combined with his reaction is giving me pause tbh. You're 23 and vulnerable enough to be spiraling over what was actually a pretty normal way to tell someone you love them - maybe not perfectly executed but definitely not the disaster you think it was. Meanwhile he's 35 and instead of just saying "hey I care about you too but I'm not there yet" or something reassuring, he's making you wait around while he "thinks" about it like you just proposed marriage or something. 

  
The fact that you're beating yourself up this much over being a little tipsy and nervous when sharing your feelings is concerning. Most people would find that endearing, not something that requires days of contemplation and minimal contact. You deserve someone who doesn't make you feel like expressing love is this scary thing that might end the relationship. The right person would have handled this way better regardless of whether they were ready to say it back.

I’m 23 not a child, and this isn’t about our age gap…

Her friends knowing "of" you but not as her boyfriend after 4+ months is pretty telling. Even with anxiety, people naturally mention someone they're spending that much time with. 

  
Either she's genuinely struggling with some deeper issues around commitment/going public, or she's keeping options open. Worth having one more direct conversation about what "eventually" actually means timeline-wise.

Thank you for taking the time to read this and reply

I actually understand why that happened to her with someone else, because she hadn’t had any sexual experience before me; otherwise, I’d be even more upset

She regrets it; she says it didn’t lead to anything positive because she realized she wants to be with me, but I totally get the part about wanting to see what it feels like to sleep with someone you don’t have feelings for or who you’re just attracted to (something we’ve all done at some point in our lives, and she hadn’t until then)

I get the whole “suspicious” thing, but to be honest, ever since she sat down with me to talk (this guy didn’t even exist), the relationship has been pretty much dead…

She moves out, breaks up with me, goes completely silent, doesn’t want to see me at all, and then this happens in the middle of it all.

After a lot of fighting on my part, we managed to get back together and she realized what she was losing, but like I said, sometimes it’s hard for me—it pops into my head and makes me feel repulsed.

He a predator, way too old..

Hahahahahaha I can't stop laughing! I'm 73, retired and I went to my 50th and had a great time partying with old friends, enemies and girlfriends. Quite a few unrequited crushes were revealed and the belly laughs were fantastic! That being said, don't be that guy pining for lost glory OP! Let it go!

There's zero chance these women remember you exist 😂 

Also fml if I attend my 50 yr hs reunion. I don't remember any of those people now even 💀

Have you discussed this with your wife?

Shes very close with her friends, averagely close with her family. But yeah, still no closure on our relationship yet

You need to explain all of this, exactly as you e explained to us, when he’s sober. And go from there.

Bro just watch High Fidelity and save yourself the trouble.

Why couldn’t you discuss it with your wife? That seems significant.

Is she actually close with her friends and family?   
I mean they would probably know and be asking about you just from you being around a lot for all these months.

You are not the main event 
She moved on years ago.

Like a journal entry! Heck yeah, great suggestion.

Hey, so wanting to slide into the DMs of your very long long long lost ex without telling your wife is a red flag here. How would you feel if she were doing this same thing for her peace of mind?

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I can guarantee she probably doesn't even remember

I doubt she thinks about it or cares after 50 years. Leave her alone.

Definitely reach out, she will be glad to hear all of this. What a beautiful share.

I really think you're right, I think I knew that, I guess I just needed to hear it from others. Obviously it's not something I can discuss with my wife who is wonderful

It's time to break up. He was never right guy for you.  Putting off breaking up won't make it any easier, but it will waste less of your time and his emotion.

Lol. Lmao. You have managed to not learn a single lesson in FIFTY YEARS.

STOP MAKING IT ALL ABOUT YOU.

Someone using weed like this/ at these times might indicate anxiety? might be one aspect to address, get to the bottom of the meaning/purpose of the use and see if there isn’t another way to deal w it

Wow. This was unnecessarily cruel, why do you enjoy kicking someone while they’re down????

Boy they don’t even remember you

If you are only averaging ~90 drinks a year I would have a conversation and if the drinking makers her uncomfortable maybe she shouldn’t hang out with the group while people are drinking especially if she is trying to stay sober. 

I think both you and your sister have valid perspectives. It’s fair to what to have a few drinks and it also fair not to want to be around people who are drinking.

maybe it's better to write out what you'd like to say and see if it's productive to you AND her? like will it benefit the both of you or just you. maybe you just need to get it out in some way

i’ve mentioned that to him, he’s said he’s not trying to do that and he mentioned that about six months ago. i do believe he’s genuinely scared of commitment i just don’t know if that’s something i want to continue bothering with

it’s been 50 years. leave her alone.

Man this is tough situation. I get why you feel like it was cheating even though technically you were broken up - she met the guy right before leaving and then slept with him during break, so timeline feels really suspicious. Even if everyone says it's not cheating, your feelings about it are valid

  
The fact she had zero experience before you and then immediately went to someone else during break... that would mess with my head too. Resentment is natural response but it's going to poison the relationship if you can't work through it somehow. Maybe you need to have honest conversation with her about how this affected you, or consider if you can actually move past it

  
Been driving for DoorDash for while now and see lot of relationships that fall apart over trust issues like this - sometimes people just can't get over certain things and that's okay too

The way you phrased it was not good. 
Maybe , when talking,  you could have just suggested her to do new stuff in a gentle way. I mean like maybe: hey, I know you like this  thing (something she likes), so I was thinking, what about trying to do this hobby or training since you've got lots of free time. I think it will really benefits you and etc.i mean, you noticed that she doesn't have stuffs to do, then suggest her activities just don't be like: you're suffocating me, I need my solitude back.  Sorry, but That's harsh

Get her busy without her even noticing so that you can have your space. That's  something you can do.

You’re doing this for you. Not for her. 

Just leave her alone.

If you feel that way don't linger. Tell him and move on

I don't have any advice for you (never been in that situation so I wouldn't know where to begin) but I wonder if you'd have more luck on the r/trees subreddit, which is the weed subreddit.

Maybe i didn't put it well into words, what i meant was he left first because his bus arrived, and when i was alone i got harrased.

Damn that bus situation is a huge red flag - leaving someone alone at a train station especially after harassment is just basic safety stuff he should get. When you're feeling more energized around random strangers than your own boyfriend thats pretty much your brain telling you what you already know

  
Time to rip the bandaid off before you both waste more time pretending this works

I agree about balance. I could see a situation where I waited too long on the job search and didn’t even have the best pick of jobs work-life-balance wise. Sometimes I need a push, but I think it came too early and too harsh. He is an honest person, exceptionally blunt. Not controlling in other departments (the opposite), but easily annoyed when time or money is wasted. 

My family are so loving. I grew up wanting to make them proud and myself happy. He grew up in a tough love kind of household that led him to excel. 

I will reinforce that he can’t talk to me that way. Especially if I see it happen in a situation that has nothing to do with my better good, I won’t tolerate it. Thank you

This is why people need to keep their families at an arm’s length. This behavior is so toxic and your life would be so much happier without this nonsense.

So this is something you need to think about for yourself. 

If you cannot separate her from her money, and you from your lack of money, and just accept that you both have different means in terms of money, you will eventually make your relationship fail.

You do what you can for free and for limited money. There are TONS of things that take time instead of money that a lot of people, hopefully including your GF, would appreciate.

You also do your best to let her spend her money on you both how she wants without feeling awkward about it if she wants to pay for something. You don't EXPECT her to spend the money, or ask her, but if she offers work to accept it gracefully and thankfully.

Exactly. Except you can try to communicate your needs to her and work on the relationship if you don't want to call it quits. If she doesn't respect your boundaries once you've communicated them clearly (one of them being that she doesn't guilt you to stay up past when you want or cancel plans for her) then it's up to you to walk away

Your girlfriend chose to be with you knowing your situation so the picnics and flowers probably mean way more to her than expensive dinners anyway

This is going to turn abusive real quick if it’s not there already. You need to leave her. You should be able to talk to your friends about your relationship because they’ll be there for you when you ✨DUMP✨HER✨ASS✨

Simply put, if he wanted to, he would. But right now, you're acting like a gf when that's not how he sees you. 

He's keeping his options open.

I am 25 and my sister is 27

I don't think you should talk to her ex, but talk to your man instead, he should  make his stand and be firm in his decision no matter how many times the ex gf is going to come on to him. As long as he is not letting her,,, you are good you don't have to worry about the ex.

dude's basically using the "not officially dating" thing as an escape hatch whenever he wants to pull back without consequences - you're getting all relationship responsibilities with none of security.

Sounds like you want different things. Time to move on.

It makes me wonder if this baby was conceived during non-consensual duty sex. A baby born potentially from sexual violence. What a shame that this is the dynamic.

"at least with your dad you might actually have space to rebuild some of that self worth your sister has been chipping away at"

I think this parts worries me a bit. I would get an itching-feeling that my dad would have a conditional love for me, even though he says that he loves me. The condition being if I don't do what he says, he would get straight up mad at me. (It has happened in the past a few times.)

But I also do think (and hope) that he had changed overtime throughout the years even though he acts in a similar way, just with a bit more of open-mindedness.

Honestly, you need to ask yourself how much of a fuss you want to create to deal with this.  Until you figure out that, you're kind of stuck.  Once you do, then there are a couple of options and one rather silly one.

The first is relatively gentle.  When she makes a comment, call her out gently.  Tell her when she's stepped outside polite behavior with a 'Sister, that was very unkind and rude' or a 'oh my, that was inappropriate' and even 'policing others is not acceptable in polite company'.  When she questions why you're doing it, say that you appreciate her concern but everyone has the right to make their own choices.  Say you're worried about her and whether there is a reason she's reacting so strongly and impolitely.  She probably won't be able to answer.  Just restate the boundary that it's not acceptable to be policing other people.  Then refuse to engage.  Step away, hang up, or even leave.  Stick to your boundary.  Eventually she'll quieten down.

An approach that's more confrontational, is to talk it out.  Tell her directly that it's becoming difficult to include her or be around her because of her judgemental attitude.  Explain that you know it comes from a good place, but she's becoming holier-than-thou.  Maybe make a comparison to a group she dislikes for similar attitudes, like 'one of those vegans' or 'one of those antivaxxers'.  Expect a lot of embarrassment and defensive behavior.  Keep telling her you love her but you can't continue to tolerate what she's doing.  Be specific.  Then let it lie.  When it happens again, remind her that those kinds of comments are mean and judgemental.  Do it directly without hedging.  Try to get others to support you before all this happens.

The third option is more nuclear.  I'm not sure this approach is in any way realistic but it's amusing to consider... or a possible last resort.  

This option is to hold an intervention.  The topic?  Her obviously hidden alcohol addiction.  Be very concerned.  Tell her you feel awful for not noticing or supporting her through her obvious recovery.  Ask her if she's traumatized due to all the comments she's made.  Does she need help to get over her trauma?  In short, embarrass her and make her realize that her good intentions are making her look like a fool.

OP, your sister is far out of bounds.  I don't blame you for being tired of it.  Consider how far you're willing to go.  Don't let it fester further.  She'll start to cause real problems by driving away friends.

If she has a history as you said of stonewalling you have disagreements or feeling hurt, that is not okay. And yes, you are allowed to feel hurt. It seems you are at a bit of your wits end and she doesn't respect your boundaries. You do have to follow through as this commenter said, and not fall right back into people pleasing or over-explaining yourself.

Girl I also just posted about my relationship recently. My bf (27M) and I (30F) are on the path to separation because we’re incompatible sexually and emotionally. He has trauma from a previous relationship that he hasn’t worked through and it’s affecting our relationship. He’s also autistic/ ADHD and I’m neurotypical, which makes it hard for me to relate to him and his tendencies. You should call it quits before it gets worse. I’m in the same boat, so I’m waiting for him to arrive in our new city before we have this talk.

He’s a bad partner and I suspect with his selfishness he will be a shitty dad too. Leave him and find someone who isn’t going to coerce you into sex that makes you feel pain or discomfort.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

 * It contains an external url.  URLs are not allowed on /r/relationships.  You must remove the url/link.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.
 * If you're creating an update, please follow the rules in our wiki and sidebar that describe how to submit updates.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to the content to ensure that the submission confirms to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

So think of yourself first. Time to live your best life. Your young, plenty of time for relationships later.

Try over stimulated next time instead of suffocated. I know that is how it feels to you, but that is how over stimulation feels. Still, that's a pretty harsh way to put it. 

Now, your gf needs some major work on her end or this isn't going to work. Take it from someone who had a partner who was a stage 5 clinger and didn't have people outside of me. It wears. I'm neurodivergent and need space and quiet to recharge. It's not healthy for her to be clinging 24-7. It's not healthy to only have two people in your life and not be able to entertain yourself otherwise. I hope she is in therapy to work on these things. Because as much as you love her, in the long run, love isn't enough. This incompatibility will become a bigger issue once the honeymoon period ends and if she is still unable to respect you need days to yourself.

Thank you so much she is definitely limiting me

Your boyfriend. His thought that he can't do anything right. I mean, anyone who is so overwhelmed by regular everyday life that they can't do anything isn't doing anything right.

shes definitely not but she does do a good job at convincing me she is when this shit isnt happening we have been together for two years now and I honestly think theres no chances left to give and its started to build resentment

My only question is: what is stopping him from doing this to you. How a man treats other women he has dated is a very good metric for how he will treat you.

He's a player, don't be his game

yeah thats what its starting to look like

This is very true, sounds amazing honestly 😅 I used to worry im not gonna find another one i like as much but I try to remind myself im still young and there are so many other opportunities

bruh was planning baby names with someone else while crying to you about wanting you back... that level of manipulation takes way more emotional energy than just wanting hookup

Agree. Awful situation.

Why don't you leave him?  You don't sound compatible.

moving to mexico with limited spanish and bad memories sounds rough but your sister is straight up destroying your mental health right now. toxic family dynamics like that dont just magically get better over summer break - theyll probably get worse with everyone home more

  
staying in a situation where someone is actively tearing down your confidence is way more damaging long term than dealing with language barriers or an overly talkative dad. at least with your dad you might actually have space to rebuild some of that self worth your sister has been chipping away at

If someone gets “defensive” or “difficult” as a response to you to expressing what kind of sex you’re willing to consent to, they’re showing you that THEIR pleasure is more valuable than YOUR consent.

There’s a word for violating someone’s consent. Rape and sexual assault don’t always occur in those violent ways you see on TV or movies. There’s a reason why the term marital rape exists.

Thats always what Ive thought but she likes to convince me that clingy relationships like this just means we love each other, and trust me I love being clingy but this has just become suffocating

Ironically she is very, very anti-quack when it comes to stuff like that.

It honestly sounds like you’re just worried about hurting his feelings ( which you did say you were, because of your past relationship) I don’t mean feelings, I should say worried about not fulfilling his needs. But it sounds like he needs to be worried about how you’re feeling right now with the cyst condition that you have and the pregnancy. It sounds very one sided.

Yes.  

Now imagine having a girlfriend you like just as much, shes super cute and into just like your girl.  But she has hobbies of her own, shes confident and doesnt demand you prove how much you like her to quiet her insecurities.  You both have time to yourself and then experiences to talk about when you come back together.  She doesnt have to compete with your friends, she engages with them and is excited for you to spend time with them.

Your never going to find that if you stay in shitty relationships.

Ma’am there is a term for aggressive painful sex that continues after you try to end it. There is a term for sex that you have not because you want to, but because you feel like you have to or the other person will get mad. Now I anticipate that you would say something like “but I initiate and I pretend I like it and I don’t tell him no so it totally isn’t rape” but even if I were to accept that argument as valid (which I don’t) then AT BEST you are tricking this man into raping you and that is also unacceptable. Please, I beg you, go to a sex therapist and a regular therapist and a couples therapist.

Your partner is extremely selfish, and frankly, his behavior is disgusting. You’re *still* having sex a lot despite your physical conditions, and he wants more regardless of how it makes you feel. You have PCOS and you’re pregnant. He doesn’t respect your boundaries, including being aggressive with you *after* you signal for him to stop. You are already compromising more than your fair share. Also, wtf does he think is going to happen after there’s a baby involved? Is he going to whine about not being able to go deep enough and recommend surgery while you’re taking care of a newborn? 

Seriously, OP, I don’t see how you think you’re the selfish one in this situation. I’d be furious if my partner treated me this way. 

P.S. more sex doesn’t stop cheaters, and someone cheating has nothing to do with your desirability.

Its just like when you're hanging out with your friends or family same concept. Say im tired I'm going sleep or going home. Or just sound like you need communicate with each other dont comenon here talk about it talk to her and tell her that.

It is okay in the initial stage...but it's been year. People should know by now.

Why can’t your partner enjoy sex unless it hurts you?  Does he like anything expect causing you pain and degrading you?

Make sure several male doctors explain to him how dangerous sex will be for you post partum.   Like it will be a risk to your life kind of dangerous.

I have told him before that I felt he was being too rough and explained that’s why I was pushing on his shoulders. He said he thought I was doing that because I was enjoying it. 

We’ve tried oral again since then, but I felt nothing changed. Now whenever he tries to go down on me, I just ask if we could go straight to penetrative sex, which he accommodates, but I can tell he gets upset. 

He can be defensive when I bring up difficult or uncomfortable topics, and so far, sex conversations haven’t been any different…

What concerns me most is that you're describing a pattern of duty sex: having sex primarily to manage your partner's feelings rather than because you genuinely want it. Sex that happens because you're afraid of rejection, conflict, guilt, or abandonment isn't healthy intimacy. It's you sacrificing your own comfort to keep someone else happy. That violates CONSENT. You’re “having sex” to avoid a punishment or consequence.

I also noticed that you've tried to communicate that certain things hurt or feel bad, and instead of responding with concern, his response is that you're "hurting him" by not agreeing to them. That's a troubling way to frame this. Nobody is entitled to anal sex, specific positions, oral sex, or any other sexual act from their partner, especially when that partner is experiencing pain.

Ask yourself this: imagine your future child grows up and tells you that their partner expects them to endure painful sex, unwanted sex, or sexual acts they dislike because otherwise their partner feels frustrated or deprived. Would you tell them that's just part of being a good partner? Would you tell them they should let someone use their body no matter how uncomfortable it is? Or would you tell them that their comfort, safety, and consent matter?

The question isn't whether you're compromising enough. The question is why someone who claims to love you is asking for more when you're already sacrificing your own comfort and enjoyment to meet his demands.

I deleted my comment cause it came off mean. But this feels like more of a you issue than a him problem. Either let it go or communicate better. Couples therapy is a good idea like someone else mentioned. You cant control him and it doesnt seem like a real problem, just nit picky and controlling.

Just watch out that she doesn't start telling you not to vaccinate your kids.

the control over my time and attention comment really just knocked some reality into me, your totally right I was scared I was in the wrong for not giving enough of me or in her words her not being enough so I have to go do other things, but doesn’t every person have things they like to do on their own?

Why is it on you to compromise so much? You’re pregnant and in pain. Why can’t he compromise with less sex or intimacy that doesn’t involve penetration, like a handjob or even mutual masturbation? From what you wrote, it doesn’t sound like he wants to compromise. It sounds like he wants you to just shut up and take it so he can get off, your comfort be damned.

Ugh girl chill out he seems weird cause you made it weird. Not trying to dim your issue but if you respect him and weed isnt causing a real problem, you need to lay off. Go to couples therapy if you really need to but it seems like a you problem and not a him problem. You dont need to control him.

She says she doesnt want me to hang out with friends because I dont know how to set boundaries with them and I overshare about our relationship, and she had genuinely gotten upset at me for hanging out with family or working for too long before

3.5 drinks a day is a lot lol. That is 24 drinks a week. We drink 3.5 drinks maybe every 1-2 weeks.

The above submission has been removed because our AutoModerator has found that your post may be dealing with rape or sexual abuse in some way. If you are seeking direct advice on dealing with such a situation (or are asking if something constitutes rape), we ask that you please post instead to /r/rape, /r/rapecounseling, or /r/secondary_survivors (if someone you know has been abused). These communities have dedicated userbases that can provide and better guarantee the sort of sensitivity, support, and protection that may not be available here in /r/relationships. Please understand that you have done nothing wrong in posting here in the first place. We hope you understand that we are trying to make sure you get the best possible help available and give you the benefit of our experience in moderating this subreddit.  If you believe you are receiving this message in error, please message the moderators for reapproval.

Click here (once) to request reapproval and then click send **once** only.

The reapproval is manual, so send a **single request** only. Multiple requests do not mean faster approval, in fact they may clog the modqueue and result in reapprovals taking even more time.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Unfortunately I tell her my plans every single time and will let her know when im doing stuff on the phone she basically needs and wants updates every second hence the getting mad if I dont text back in ten minutes even if im doing something that is pretty hard to text during 😣

She does not sound emotionally mature. Its perfectly fine to have hobbies, and time to yourself. You dont have to be in contact 24 hours a day at your ages. 
Maybe its time to concentrate on school, college, and not be serious with a girl yet.

The part where you tolerate aggressive oral on you is horrible.  He needs to be told how to do it and if he doesn't do it right, tell him to stop.  Come on girl, you are enabling him here in order to not hurt his feelings.  He already has hurt feelings.  Just be 100% honest with him.

My goal isn’t to control whether he uses weed. My goal is to feel connected, secure, and respected in the relationship while raising our children together.

Have you stated this directly to him? A lot of these issues can be resolved by talking to your partner. Use your words like you did here.

Who- my boyfriend or grand sea's advice?

You'll know more after a conversation with her. For now, it would probably be best to stop the "I'm just a baby" thing for optics reasons, and to be more proactive at offering to do chores at her parent's place when you stay there. She shouldn't have to ask, it should be second nature to try to pitch in 50/50 whenever you're there, without prompting, especially if you are staying there all day while she's at work. You don't have to apologize or make up for taking a break from your job, but if you have a lot of free time and your partner doesn't, you should try to help them out.

Okay, yes, I understand. Sorry I can’t think of anything. Hope he somehow finds his way back soon, for the sake of both of you.

I would say maybe you shouldn’t hang out as much if your lifestyles are no longer compatible. It could be social media is corrupting her brain or it could be she finally sees the situation for what it is. 

If a family member of mine had 30 interventions with me about my drinking I would take it as a sign to take a serious look. Go talk to your doctor and see what they think about your drinking. You only need an average of 3.5 drink a day to double your risk of cancers. 5-7 drinks is a lot of alcohol in one sitting.

It might help to just have a bit of a schedule for your hobbies when you want some alone time and just tell her upfront. She might be being a bit unreasonable, but maybe there’s just a bit of surprise to her that you’re talking with her and she doesn’t know you’re doing something at the same time. Could be both too. Maybe say something along the lines of “from 5-6 I’m going to be out skating/playing games/painting, and I’m looking forward to calling you after” (I’m sure there’s a cooler way to say that)

"In fact, I often don’t bring it up because things feel good between us."

That's the problem. If it's bothering you enough to ask advice on the Internet you should definitely bring it up.

Communicate! You don't have to scold him or judge him. Just tell him that you are worried about him and that you feel like things are different when he's high. You both should be about to talk about this, like adults in a committed relationship.

I always make sure to give my most attention to her though, and im talking on call 24/7 always talking to her

Absolutely no one, NO ONE, is entitled to 24/7 access to you. 

You're not an emergency service or an on-call therapist/entertainer. You're a human being. 

Even in married life, you're entitled to your own time. Expecting constant, eternal access is unreasonable in ALL circumstances and relationships.

What makes you think you’re an over thinker? Is this something you have recognised in yourself or is this something he’s told you before? Because thinking about issues thoroughly and considering all possible options isn’t necessarily a bad thing but if you raise issues and he tells you each time that you’re over thinking then that’s a problem. 

Location sharing in a relationship isn’t normal. It shows a lack of trust. But another possible reason could be that he’s doing something that requires him to know when you might be in a position to catch him out on it. 

You need to trust your gut on this. You are not over thinking, but definitely either turn your location off or delete the app and see what his reaction is, as that will give you all the information you need.

Thank you. She used to do most of the asking to see each other, but after she told me she felt like she was the one doing most of it and we wouldn’t see each other unless she did, I’ve been the one doing most of it. I always plan the dates for her and never really ask what she wants to do. Thank you for your input. I want that to possibly be the reason, just scared it’s a bad one

Couples therapy! :D

Was substance use not discussed before having kids? Was there ever a conversation about being high around your kids or exposing them to substances? It doesn’t sound like a safety risk at all, but that’s something that should be discussed during family planning.

No sane person will say you’re not giving her enough attention. What does she do if you want to hang out with friends or family? What if you’re at school or work? 

You’re young, she’s young, but you’ll both learn that a *healthy* relationship requires some independence. Basically if you don’t have time to take a shit without the other person getting upset, it’s not a healthy relationship and you need to set some boundaries

Thank you. Yeah. It’s very confusing because it feels like she sends me little things while ignoring our actual messages to see if I’ll chase her. You’re right about not doing direct communication. I need to learn to be okay with that. It just scares me

Man this brings back memories from when I was around your age. Had similar situation with ex who wanted constant attention but then would scroll social media while we talked. The double standard there is pretty obvious - she can watch TikTok during conversations but you cant play games or paint?

  
Setting boundaries was right move but she's pushing back because change feels threatening to her. At 16-17 this kind of possessive behavior is unfortunately common since people are still figuring out healthy relationship dynamics. The "you're changing our relationship" comment is manipulation tactic to make you feel guilty for having basic needs.

  
Real talk though - if you cant take 10 minutes for yourself without drama, thats not sustainable long term. Relationships need breathing room or they suffocate. Maybe suggest specific times when you both do your own things, then come back together to share what you did. If she cant handle that compromise then you'll know where her priorities really are.

  
The fact she gets upset about skating when she cant even join you shows this isnt really about wanting to spend time together - its about control over your time and attention.

Life is too short, romantic or otherwise, don't surround yourself with people who limit you. Especially at your age.

Explain politely but fairly that you need downtime, if she doesn't like it then that's her problem, not yours.

Sounds like you should stop having a girlfriend.

Yeah a get that my ex smoked a lot n I never found it hard as just no convo after joint but need to think can u deal with it

This is an issue I had with my spouse the first few years I was on summer break (as a teacher). Maybe some posts over there can offer some insight?

I don’t truly think he was tying to control my career choice.

Your thought is not correct

It's ok to take the less paying route, life is about balance in all aspects you have to chose what will make you happy not just what pays the most. I think you already know that and it's just him who doesn't know or doesn't respect it.

Im starting to see a bit of a pattern, or connected themes. May I ask if your family values and respects you? Often our "normal" meter is broken when we grow up with aggressive or controlling people in our families/lives growing up and so you end up with putting up with a lot of unhealthy behaviour as an adult. 

You don't have to answer but I encourage you to reflect on it.

Im currently pregnant and have a 2 year old .. so it’s just not in my life anymore. I used to smoke on and off. Was never against it … but now for some reason it’s driving me crazy.

So u not smoke at all

We all drank more in our teens/20s, but not like, excessively. Just a normal amount for people that age. And we all slowed down in our 30s of course, especially when me and my wife had kids.

Stop thinking this guy is your boyfriend.  

If he ever even WAS your boyfriend, he broke up with you awhile ago.  He just didn't formally dump you because he wanted to keep you on a string, probably for sex.

When you beg and beg him to spend time with you, and he finally shows up, does he always expect sex?  Do you ever go on a date, just to enjoy each other's company?

Wake up.  He probably has a real girlfriend, and/or a couple other fuckbuddies.

Stop begging for his crumbs and leftovers.  You aren't important to him.  Quit calling him.

Accepting porn as something every man does and therefore beyond critique is dangerous. It saddens me to see young girls and boys come on here and ask for advice (with natural concerns, and as one of the first generations of humans to have had this issue) and be told that they’re being sensitive because porn is normal.  Watching porn is common and so is being uncomfortable with it, but for some reason we act like the latter is unreasonable. For every statistic there is on the amount of men who watch porn, there’s a study to show the harm it does to body image and interpersonal relationships. In my opinion, that should be enough to open a dialogue beyond ‘it’s normal, get over it’. 

However, I am truly not here to moralise on if/when men should watch porn - that would be as effective as moralising alcohol. I am trying to make the point the culture around it is toxic, legitimises it by treating it as a natural fixture of humanity, and serves primarily to make regular porn users feel better about their habits.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The above submission has been **removed** because:

* It does not appear to contain a tl;dr or any sort of short summary. Please create anew post including a tl;dr. Refer to FAQ: What is TL;DR? Why do I need it? for some pointers.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem Please note if you feel your post is too short for a tl;dr we will likely consider it too short to get meaningful input.   

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Instead of waiting for a text reply, try just calling her next time. I think if you want to make this work, you need to take a less passive approach. Call her when you want to talk to her. Make a plan for a date instead of asking her what she wants to do.

I don't think she's being deliberately hot and cold. I think she just doesn't have the mental capacity to respond to texts. For example, you might text her while she's in the middle of studying. She reads it and thinks "I'm in the middle of studying so I'll reply later" and swipes the notification away. Then she forgets. It's not that she doesn't care about you, she's just having difficulty with task management.

I would disclose it because the being in fear will kill romance and if he has a bad reaction then you're not in very deep. Somebody who doesn't love you with the inclusion of accepting your past doesn't love you. I disagree with advice to hide in order to keep the peace.

OK, 2 things. 1 - it's not needy to ask for clarification on your girlfriend's behavior, and being direct with her could help this situation quite a bit. Hey, you seem really quiet and I haven't heard from you since yesterday. You okay? Or an actual phone call directly to her, and say the same thing. This is direct communication. 

2 - It's really not cool for her to disappear on you with no communication like that. It almost sounds like she wants you to chase her or something. If she needs space and isn't up for talking, telling you that vs. just ignoring you for days at a time is the right move. Tell her you'd prefer that sort of heads up if that's what she needs so you aren't left guessing.

I suppose I should have mentioned this in the post, but I think a lot of it is social media driven. For whatever reason she started watching a lot of health influencers on social media, and then her algorithm started to get filled with that stuff. And then when she quit alcohol, she also started to get a lot of 'sobriety' stuff on social media. Some of it is ex-alcoholics but most of it is just young health influencers who don't drink and talk about not drinking. 

This is all according to her wife, who has seen her social media feed. I have never personally seen it. 

I cant really entirely say what happened a year ago. I don't think anything notable. The only thing I can think of is that our brother lost 100lbs from GLP1s but that was before then.

Totally, you can definitely say things you didn't quite mean in the heat of the moment. 

I think you should also be centering it around what *your* needs are, instead of what's wrong with *her* behaviour or deficiencies. Some people are much more independent and crave lots of alone time. Others are like Velcro in a relationship and would love their girlfriend to call them every night to talk for hours and share their interests with them. It's possible the amount of time you were spending together before was making her feel lonely and disconnected, though "every night for hours" is a bit of an extreme correction. 

The key is to negotiate and figure out an amount of together time that suits both of your needs.

Ooooof, this would drive me up a wall! I can absolutely relate because my sister has to make snide comments toward others anytime she decides to diet, even went as far as to tell me carrots are unhealthy, and of course she looks down on anyone who drinks. 

At this point I think you'll need to have a united front. It's not realistic for her to expect 3 other adults to fall in line with something they just aren't interested in. 

If the talking to her respectfully isn't taking, my next move would probably be making light of it consistently. For a situation like the grill, I would tell her thanks for the concern but I'll take my chances; she doesn't have to like your response, but it's not like she's willing to consider how you don't like her lectures and preaching. I'd even buy myself a keychain breathalyzer and ask the alcohol police if she wants to see my BAC.... But then it's your sister and only you can judge if this will get through to her vs piss her off royally. If humor doesn't do it, I'd lay it out that you guys are going to continue living there with every intention of drinking your usual amount and you will not be entertaining further conversations, especially when you are actively trying to enjoy yourself at home. When it comes up you can politely but firmly say this isn't up for discussion, and then don't respond to any of her further comments on the topic, or if you do make it a simple "ok."

If being around him drives your anxiety crazy instead of making you feel safe, it’s a sign something is off. You shouldn't have to force it just because everyone else thinks you look good together.

That's what I thought. I've known some people who drank as much as a reasonable person would in parties or in public and then project that everyone else was drinking as much as they were behind the scenes.

People tend to assume others are the same. Maybe she had a problem and since, outwardly, OP & Co. Are drinking as much as she was, she assumes that they must be having far more secretly?

The fact that she was there for the two beers and then gets antsy over a grill is weird though.

your feelings are valid here

  
the timing is rough - 730 AM with a toddler and pregnant partner feels off. plus the family history thing would worry me too

  
maybe try talking when he's sober about how it makes you feel disconnected? not attacking the weed itself but how it affects your connection

We tried. She suggested a phone call but never responded when I said I was ready that night. She just ignored me the whole next day. This was after she was really sweet to me. Lots of hot and cold

Yes. But when we do talk I’ve never brought it up. I didn’t want to come across as needy. I’ve only brought it up twice now, the second time was yesterday. I “move on” because I assumed she just needs space, but it’s gotten to a point where I wanted to let her know again that it does bother me

I don't understand. So you will what, text or call her, but she will ignore the texts/calls completely and continue to send you things on IG and TikTok? And then when you finally do talk to her, you say "Hey, why did you ignore my texts for 3 days" she says, Oh I was just stressed? And you move on?

its normal for you to want to end your night on good, happy terms with your partner, but someone who doesn't listen to your boundaries ("i need to go to bed so i'm rested for tomorrow") isn't someone who is really equipped to be a good partner.

It's terrible, it's heartbreaking, but it sounds like he's right.

Have you tried using a different form of communication, like a phone call? It's possible that texting just doesn't work for her when she's overwhelmed.

Dating for "over a year" but like half of that has been a struggle? Do you, and i'm not trying to be snarky here, have an understanding that that's not a normal course for a relationship? That healthy relationships, and especially NEW relationships, shouldn't be 50% distressing?

Especially when you're looking at a recurring issue: if it can't be resolved by discussing it multiple ways multiple times, i'm just not sure what you think you can do to change things. Like... surely if you're both equally invested, and you were CAPABLE of fixing the issue, you would have. 

It seems to me like she lacks the ability to navigate normal life stressors and also relationship maintenance and that imbalance isn't fair to you.

just letting the friendship go naturally, even if it means I lose the other people I’ve considered family.

not to sound too "if they don't understand, they weren't your real friends anyway" but... If the people you consider family are watching you navigate a relationship with someone and they decide that they'd rather take sides and dump you, it seems they don't think of you the same way you think of them.

Tell her she can either keep her comments to herself or stay away. If she starts in then party is over. You leave or you kick her out. Since it's shared outdoor space then while she gets the picture you may just have fewer cookouts.

The alcohol is not the issue, it's her policing other adults. Annoying vegans, anyone who can't shut up about calories, all of these deserve the same treatment. She can control her own diet and she needs to leave everyone else alone. 

This is probably misplaced anxiety (look around, it's rough out there) but it doesn't matter why she's like this, she is being rude.

brother just move on

  
she showing you who she is, listen

yeahh, it's really weird how you don't notice how inflammatory you've been until hours after it's already happened. that wasn't at all my intention but I don't blame her or anyone else for interpreting my words that way. though I'm glad I made this post because I doubt I would have realized the problem with my approach on my own

Have you asked her to stop the alcohol lectures? Have you told her that you don't want her opinion about your choices. And that you don't want your kids to keep hearing her being so negative and judgement. It can scare kids to hear someone tell their parents that they are destroying your bodies, are doing something bad and risky. Kids pick that up.

Sure but the need to call that a “break” is the immature part. Why does your relationship status have to be tied to your current life workload? 

There was a 3 month period last year where I didn’t see my wife. I was stuck working in a different state and working long shifts, sometimes only getting back to the hotel for an hour or two before sleep and back to work. 

We didn’t get a divorce before the trip. We didn’t go “on a break” because we wouldn’t be seeing each other for a bit. We just went about our lives and our relationship adapted to our circumstances, as they do. My boss’ wife had a death in the family and had to go across the country to deal with the estate. They didn’t go “on a break” while she was gone. 

Are you getting my point? You’re either in a relationship, full stop. Or you’re not. Breaks are for people in immature relationships and shouldn’t be taken seriously. 

Is this partner your serious life partner? Why the fuck would you split up when life gets tough? That’s exactly what healthy partners are supposed to help each other work through TOGETHER. Not separated.

Invite my husband and I over for the next cookout. We'll bring triple IPAs, martini necessities, pre rolls and debate skills. Maybe even a pasta salad.

Your feelings are valid, it's good to set boundaries, and she is not being the most mature...but also telling your girlfriend that she "suffocates" you and "I think you'd understand if you also had something to put your attentions towards" kind of makes it sound like you think she's a clingy loser with no life or meaningful interests of her own.

you’re responsible for upholding your own boundaries but you communicated it (using language like suffocating) as if she did something wrong and she’s violating those boundaries- but it seems they’ve never been properly communicated before.

you are correct and this really hit me :/

I don't know why she'd think that I wouldn't be enjoying those calls. she had no reason to assume that, or any way to know it. I never told her, I don't know why I thought she'd know, as if she was doing it on purpose in order to be malicious. that was dumb of me. as I said in another reply I think the exhaustion just got to me and I exploded unfortunately. I feel for her and I hope we can resolve this tomorrow or the day after but yeah this made me realize I was in the wrong

No, you shouldn’t reach out if he’s asked you not to, unless it’s to say that you’re done and are ending it for good.

If you’ve decided that you’re okay with breaks then you do need to actually hold up your end of what you agreed to.  So leave him alone and focus on yourself.  Journal about it, or set up a therapist appointment, or make plans with friends, or schedule a message or go to a movie.

Y’all are not aligned and he wants to control every career choice but those are your choices to make. If you’re not good enough for him, he should break up and move on.

I get what you're saying but my point is that sometimes I get it. When you're young life gets weird really quick, and dealing with a relationship at the same time is a lot. For me, in that sense, breaks are needed. Because you don't even notice you're fucking up. In the past two weeks I've had to deal with the death of my ex (who was my best friend in highschool, plus classmate) and with the fact that I've decided to retake cillege entrance exams, while searching for a job. It's all been a shock. The relationship is a cherry on top, so in that sense it's better to kinda focus on what's going on with me, so I can navigate being "us" with someone. Still miss him tho lol.

Found the sister lol

It’s never okay for him to yell at you.  It may be that there’s a conversation you need to have about plans and timelines and the effect your choices may have on his own financial situation. That doesn’t justify the way he’s treated you.

Binge drinking is defined as 4 or more drinks in one sitting for women and 5 or more for men.  Doing that multiple times in a month is excessive.

You’re correct in your statement about every relationship having a different “normal” you are NOT correct about breaks being useful. 

Look, I’ve been young, I’ve had “the love of my life” relationship as a teenager. 

I know you wanted an answer of “oh sweety, reach out and he’ll finally realize how wrong he was and he’ll fix the issues in your relationship” 

But you came to this sub for actual advice, not an ego fluff. My advice (as an older person who’s seen a lot of good and bad relationships, happily married myself) is that breaks. Don’t. Work. Ever. Just break up and drop all the expectations/rules/arguments. 
Is it going to hurt? Yes. Is it going to suck? Yep. 
Will you be better off for it? 100%. You’ll learn to grow and be an adult by yourself. Him as well. And maybe 6 months to a year down the line, after you both have healed a bit and learned a bit, you can try again in a fresh relationship with some more life experience behind you.

I mean, OP posted in here, so if they want an answer, people miiiiight have follow up questions.  You can calm down.

Everything feels like a distraction. I don't mind being alone but rn I don't know if we're going ti stay together by the end of this break. So it just feels like a slow torture.

So far I've dealt with by always having a social interaction booked and if I can't be with peoole I just throw myself into studying. Like for the whole day.

So? So is judging everyone around you

Who cares how much she drinks? As long as she isn't reckless or irresponsible, it's no one's damn business.

Your bf should be standing up to her and sheltering you. You shouldn’t even be having to think about or hear that crap.

Tell her the truth. Tell her that she has no right to judge you and that she can keep her comments to herself. Tell her if she persists then you won't be interacting with her anymore. 

There are people who literally drink several times a week. There are people who only drink on special occasions and let loose a little. None of this is really problematic unless you're reckless or irresponsible about it.

I think what's "normal" is different depending on the relationships. Especially when you're young I think it may be useful to get some alone time.

I am anxiously attached but I also know I'm in love and I feel actively more hurt every day. I get his need for space, but I also have needs.

maybe the lesson to take from this is that you need different support in your life. If you don't have coping mechanisms or ways to help yourself get through moments of stress or distress, you need to seek those out. Get a therapist you can work on this with, and who you can call when you need to process your feelings without interfering with someone else's.

Did she used to have an alcohol problem? Sometimes sober alcoholics can transfer all that intensity that once went into their addiction into sobriety. Which is obviously much healthier than drinking but can get difficult for the people on the wrong end of it

I havnt experienced much game playing when I was single thankfully, but navigating a serious relationship after only really been on a few dates after long term is tough. 

And I get that. Im not going to go nuts, but this threw me for a loop never experienced this and with him being so consistent. 

Im kind of glad I called , but now I feel needy, when all I want is communication. XD I hate women brain mixed with dating.

oh no I completely get it, I'm not mad at all. I had no idea the language I used was harsh when I was writing it too, not sure why that is but it absolutely was not on purpose, I thought I was being tender if anything which speaks to my obliviousness I guess. I only started panicking a bit when she wouldn't tell me if she were okay or not, I needed her to say it and she didn't. which is her right of course, but when I'm the one hurting (has happened in this same relationship) I don't tend to disengage like she and a lot of other people do. which, again, not a bad thing to disengage, it's just not how I function so I don't understand when people do it

honestly, i would cut my losses. Its only been about a year, she's proven herself untrustworthy, and you're exhausted! Sounds like maybe its time to just walk away.

This sounds less like a “health kick” and more like a full-blown midlife crisis. 

I have to wonder if maybe mortality-anxiety hit your sister like a tractor trailer, and it’s coming out as a desperate attempt to control both herself and the people closest to her in an effort to stave off tragedy. It’s telling that she gets *especially* anxious when you attempt any mildly risky activities (or simply leave the house) after consuming alcohol. I think she is running paranoid scenarios in her head that would sound too insane if she said them out loud, so she hides her anxiety behind this holier-than-thou judgment. 

Which leads me to ask - did something *happen*, roughly a year ago, that might have sent her down this rabbit hole? Did something significant change in her life around the time when she started changing her diet (and policing yours)?

You say this like “breaks” in relationships are normal, they’re not. 

In my 15 year relationship, we’ve taken 0 “breaks” and if we did, we would’ve just ended the relationship instead. 

This is childish. You seem anxiously attached and should probably not reach out. 

Your feelings are valid, feeling afraid/scared of the unknown is 100% expected and you just gotta live with them for a bit while you navigate a new portion of your life, post-relationship.

Sometimes I just get busy or am having a rough time and don't respond. 

But yeah, I'm not interested in *any* sort of games either. I find that sort of childishness deeply unattractive. It's good you called.

How many times do you have to be lied to and gaslighted before it’s one too many? So far it’s been two you know of in one year. She’s gone on a trip with her ex and now someone else who you do not even know who they are. 

Will it take a third time? Would five or six do it? Maybe vacation number 12 after you have a kid with her?

Decide how much lying (and probably cheating) is too much for you and set a boundary, then enforce it. I’d recommend a boundary of when she got on the plane during the current trip.

It really doesn't matter, even if they're full-blown alcoholics, which I doubt. The sister has expressed her views (incessantly, it seems) and she needs to keep her opinions to herself.

30x a year is a little over twice a month. That is not excessive.

Wish I called sooner, but I really did figure he was busy. But as today got later I’m like now this is weird, so I let him know I got a little worried not hearing from him.

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Well I just called , he answered, I’m starting to hate dating, I feel like it’s a game. I don’t think he’s playing games but that’s what it feels like sometimes.

Run mate as far away as u can in similar spot n it’s horrid

I will say as I’ve known L I didn’t know he was a person who “didn’t do sorry” until the first time I completely by accident pissed him off. (I was testing if my PC could run a game he wanted to play with me. He saw I opened the game and thought I played it without him.) that was when we first met years ago now and he didn’t talk for me for a week or so. His girlfriend told me he just needed to cool off but I still apologized anyway and he didn’t even acknowledge it, ignored it entirely when I just wanted to explain what happened. 

The other times I’ve unintentionally angered him are like this too but varying severity. One time I was drunk and said something he has said before about his girlfriend in jest basically. My partner took my side that it wasn’t serious but that’s when L didn’t talk to me for 3-4 months and only spoke to me again when I unfriended him/unfollowed him on socials since I figured that was the end of it. 

That was when he and I hashed it out and decided to be friends again in that moment. It’s now more of an annoyance to myself when he acts like this. I know telling him that will only end badly. I’ve enjoyed spending time with my other friend who is the one effectively in a more permanent form of “friend jail” with L and nobody knows why. 

Things are just weird. I’ve been trying to figure out what I want to do and I think it’s very difficult because L just tries to act like everyone and everything is fine and we don’t even talk about the conflict and everything moves on like it didn’t happen but idk, it’s still there for me. 

Also to answer your L and my partner are the oldest in the group. (39m and 38m)L’s girlfriend is also closer to their age(36f). Me(28f) and my other friend(29m) are the youngest out of the group since it’s dwindled from just life and other conflicts just in the server.

It's good that you have started to set boundaries with her. \*But\* almost immediately you revert back into people-pleasing mode with all of your reassurance-seeking behavior afterwards. All that did was undercut your point by sending her the message that your request was unreasonable and she has reason to be upset.

okay wow I completely missed that, that's not at all how I interpreted my behavior at the time but you're completely right. I think her having a reason to be upset doesn't mean that it also can't hurt though, right? that was my thought process at least

Your GF chose to hurt you again abd lie again. Why are you putting up with this? Sorry isnt good enough, because she isnt sorry.

As a woman, it sounds like she’s cheating on you with someone in Miami. & once a liar, always a liar. I don’t see the respect and purity coming from her if this is what she does to you. 

Questions I have:  
1. What do you think caused her to suddenly admit she was going to Miami again this time?

2. Did you give her an ultimatum to not go? Is that why you say “she ended up going anyway”

True! But you're already giving him space. One text isn't some giant trial to receive, it's not like you're chain calling him or showing up at his place.

If you don't want to text him, try to focus on other things. You won't be able to "guess" and everyone on reddit has far less information about the situation than you do.

If she's already telling you such elaborate lies within only being together one year, how many other big lies will she tell in the future?

The fact she felt as if she couldn't be honest and just tell you she wanted to go to Miami on a trip is a big problem. No trust, no relationship. And clearly there is something about Miami she feels you shouldn't know about and she felt the need to hide her ex's presence from you. To top it off, she is confirmed to be a manipulative liar. Hmm...

Look else for honesty, you won't get it from her.

"or just dealing with her being even worse than she is now"

Hahahaha yeah I kept thinking to myself, man am I being too paranoid about this? I know for a fact she's not gonna hold my stuff hostage, or try to hurt me, or any weird shit like that. But I'm glad you said this. I just don't wanna deal with her reaction..... and then have her being all mopey and sad while I'm moving out.

My friend asked me "why don't you just do the hard part first" bruh I don't wanna do the hard part AT ALL. At least this way I can move all my shit out in peace, and when I'm ready the rip the bandaid off it's just one quick conversation and that's it. And then maybe in a month I can grab my TV if she is gonna be calm about it, if not, whatever I don't care she can have it. Moving all my shit while she's at work and then dropping the bomb all in one day is so fucking stressful. That was my original plan but it was just such a mindfuck. At least this way I can break it into smaller steps so it isn't as scary

Ya you're right I should use my ex as an example she did it the right way. I shouldn't try to prove her wrong, I shouldn't be afraid of being the person who ruined it, I just need to gtfo asap

Thank you for your comment I see where your concerns are coming from. I feel comfortable with my plan. Plan A is a reach but attainable and I’ve done my best to set up for it, plan B will have plenty options but some jobs will be better than others and I’m just not well informed on what to look for.

On the other hand, part of me feels he’s right that I should do some research to set myself up. It’s his communication that I can’t stand. The reason that he suggested I get those offers is to be able to have leverage and know what to look for when the time comes. I think I would have come to the conclusion to research that in the next few months before my current job ends or once I knew Plan A wasn’t panning out (I am aware of basic red flags in certain contracts for example, expected salary, PTO, but that’s it), at which point maybe I’d have a less competitive offer.

Yea , I get that. It’s very out of character and I am a little worried , but also know some people need more space then others

I dunno if this is helpful, but remembering they are human (with their own insecurities) is where I would start. 

I’m autistic and like doing structured activities over just “hanging out.” That means my friend group is based around playing board games, and I’m really the only consistent female member. Once in a while, I can tell one of their girlfriends just doesn’t like me. 

I’m thin, I don’t wear much makeup, and I’m conventionally attractive. But that doesn’t mean I could handle going to a club. That doesn’t mean jokes don’t go over my head all the time. That doesn’t mean I’m not awkward and making things uncomfortable on accident or on purpose because I couldn’t let something small go. I promise, the only reason to be intimidated by me is because you haven’t seen enough of me yet. Maybe the same is true for these girls? 

Best of luck OP. And try not be so down on yourself - he’s with you because he likes you, all of you.

Ok he can not answer and call you back later if he's busy.  
Not like you're blowing up his phone and showing up at his work freaking out. It's just a call.

"hey bf, I haven't heard from you, are you okay?"

If this behavior is uncharacteristic, I'd be conncerned that something happened. It's perfectly reasonable to reach out and make sure he's okay. 

You won't know what's happening until you *ask him.* If he ultimately ghosts you, you dodged a bullet. That's cowardly behavior (especially at that age).

as in ghosting me and being a little cold (not that I don't deserve it) whenever she does respond? it happens during some emotional disagreements like this, yeah. but that's maybe like once or twice every 2 months. every other day it feels like our relationship is perfect, in her words. this might just be a temporary thing that we'll have forgotten about 2 days from now for all I know. I don't really know if it hit any specific insecurity of hers but if I had to guess she probably feels bad of her current passive lifestyle, so me saying "get a hobby and stop clinging to me lol" might have stung. I obviously didn't say or mean it that way but I can see why she'd interpret it so, understandably

His schedule is random, and can’t take calls while he’s at work.

Must admit if my fiance said that to me I would completely back off too, like if you want space that’s fine have your space. 
It also gets me that you use some very blunt and harsh language and then expect her to continue “suffocating” you, she backed off and gave you what you asked for and you’re now mad about it? 

Give her time to cool off, you’ve very clearly and understandably upset her

Does she lecture you when you're drinking or at random times?  30 times a year is pretty excessive for drinking, especially 5-7 drinks at a time.

Just call him. Ask him where he's been.  
I mean one non-serious text and you don't follow up for 2 days. This isn't really him ghosting you. I get that ball is in his court and all, but you also didn't text or call for two days.

Just break up. Relationships can’t work without trust.

Is this the first time you have ever asked her to change her behavior in some substantial way? Is this the first time she has ever threatened to break up with you? Is there a pattern perhaps threatening to break up with you whenever your needs don’t align with her wishes?

 Anyone who jumps straight to “then we should break up” to get you to withdraw your request instead of making a good face attempt to understand understanding where you are coming from is not somebody who is not emotionally mature enough for a conversation about the rest of your life.

She is being too overbearing and intense, and you wanting more breathing room is more than understandable.

That said, *don't have serious conversations over text.* 

but I kept going at that point for some reason. I said "its okay my love, I understand if what I said hurts you a little inside, in your shoes I'd probably feel rejected too, but believe me I don't mean it to come across that way". she responds with a simple "oh okay". as a final note, I say "I love you, okay? I'll come over tomorrow", "tell me if you're okay though first"  
at this point I tried calling her, twice

It's good that you have started to set boundaries with her. \*But\* almost immediately you revert back into people-pleasing mode with all of your reassurance-seeking behavior afterwards. All that did was undercut your point by sending her the message that your request was unreasonable and she has reason to be upset. 

In the future, you set a boundary/ask for some alone time/opt against jumping at her every request. And then let it be. Don't over-apologize or seek reassurance and turn it into a bigger deal than it really is.

TBH, most people DO have their lives figured out by 30. Right now you're unemployed and living with your parents. It sounds like she's living with her parents as well, though. 

As someone who had a SO who was chronically unemployed due to mental health, it can be pretty daunting to be looking at what should be the beginning of your prime earning and investment years with a partner who doesn't seem to have any ambition or desire to level up together. 

You may not PLAN to be unemployed for 2-3 years, but it's often not up to us as individuals to decide that, and the longer you wait the harder it will be to find a new role, and it's already extremely hard in this job market.

This is diabolical.  
Not just hiding it, but spinning this whole web of lies around it. And this is the second time she does it.   

I would have a hard time believing anything she says. People like this usually aren't only lying about the things you catch them on.

Nta she isn't emotionally mature.

fuck I didn't think about the way suffocated would sound and I can't really take it back now, I exaggerated a little which was a mistake looking back. but yeah you're right. during those night calls I've told her that I'd be calling it a day and going to sleep and she'd immediately be like "NO" which made me feel awful, like imagine that being the last thing you hear before you go to bed? I want a good, resolute vocal goodnight in order to leave, maybe I'm just weird like that

I think I'm capable of putting my foot down and telling her "not now", "maybe later" whenever she'd ask, but after so many days of this I kinda got a little sick of it and blew up. it sucks

Kinda makes you wonder what (or likely **who**) is in Miami 🤔

harsh - you’re responsible for upholding your own boundaries but you communicated it (using language like suffocating) as if she did something wrong and she’s violating those boundaries- but it seems they’ve never been properly communicated before. she can’t read your mind, she probably assumed you enjoyed those calls as much as she did- or at least wasn’t aware of your mental exhaustion. 

you could have said something like, “i’m feeling a bit over socialized lately and could use a night to myself,” then explain further if needed or let her respond before you insert foot into mouth haha

"L" sounds deadly toxic. Can't tell you what to do about it but if the whole story is that you were crabby during a game because of a migraine 3 goddamn months ago... he's manipulative as fuck, and he's not your friend.

You're not even together and you're micromanaging her emoji usage lol

Has she ever reacted this strongly to criticism or boundaries before, or do you think this hit a specific insecurity she already had?

And he is covering the car note and insurance on his own?

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Why is he giving any weight to financial advice coming from a person that is not successful financially? And why isn't he doing his own research instead of just coming to you and saying "my mom thinks your wrong"?

What are you averaging weekly? I feel like we need more info to get a full picture.

I don't think there's anything wrong with that request either, but there's definitely gentle and harsh ways to express it to someone and I'm not sure which side I fell on here

It's up to you to say "calling it a night, I'm going to sleep" when calls or games go late. 

It's up to you if after you end your call/game for the night you don't go to sleep right away and take your alone time.

Point is its up to you to set healthy boundaries like going to bed when you want to go to bed and not being guilted into staying up with her.

Telling someone you feel suffocated is pretty intense language and hard not to take as an insult. Ideally you would have said something like you feel like you're running out of time to yourself these days and so you're going to prioritize that on some days.

I mean, alcohol is bad for you... it can triple the risk of cancer if one drinks more than 3.5 drinks a day on average. How much do you drink usually? Saying "the most we might have is 5-7 drinks on a very special occasion" does sound sort of like a group of heavy drinkers (not judging). 

The examples you shared of her behavior does seem straight up silly though. I think you could respond being equally absurdist and she will eventually keep it to herself.

She may mean well, but multiple people are telling her the same thing, it might be worth listening. Choosing not to drink is one thing, constantly lecturing others adults is another

So to get this out of the way, people don't have to accept your apologies. They don't even have to give you the room to make them.

That said, this reads like a very toxic group dynamic. From your description, L seems to have a form of manipulative control over the group. Is it narcissism, is it just a bunch of hierarchical people, is it just immaturity and people not having good defenses against that type of manipulation? From this side of the internet who can say. But there's some things we can see from here.

High control groups (which is really a term that would apply to like a cult, but put this as a low on the scale that a cult is a high on) often have one person who is designated as the pariah periodically, as a way of tightening the rest of the group's bonds to each other and to the leader. Often this includes some style of ritual humiliation or exile. "Friend Jail"

It's also one thing to refuse an apology from someone who you don't feel is sincere or has done enough to make amends; but systematically refusing apologies from people you've arbitrarily spurned serves a manipulative purpose: It forces the spurned to seek the approval of the toxic person. If L is doing this all the time, then it seems like it's intentionally manipulative. The ghosting thing kinda works the same.

I have someone in my wife's kinda second circle of friends who is like this, and basically everyone over time improved their lives by decreasing their contact with her. You don't have to cut ties, you can just participate less.

Also, is L the oldest person in the group by a large measure? I generally don't fuss about age gaps between friends, but this kinda reads like someone who burned all of his bridges with people his own age (who have learned how to deal with this kind of BS) and sought out or built a group that was less resistant to his behaviors.

Wanting some personal space doesn't make you a bad boyfriend. Calling for hours every day and even while you're trying to sleep sounds exhausting. I can understand why she felt hurt, but your request seems pretty reasonable

If you’re going to be away for 2 weeks this month it’s probably a weird time to ask for more time together. If you did that to me I’d be like WTF is he on about? He’s leaving!

My BF and I have been together 3 years and see each other about the same frequency. We only do one sleepover a week usually bc of our schedules and we both like downtime. He can’t text much during the day due to his job. We usually talk on the phone for about an hour after work the days we don’t see each other. 

I think you need to know what you actually want and how that would actually look before you bring it up.

your sister sounds exhausting lol, some people get really weird when they discover health stuff and think everyone else needs to live exactly like them now

You're too old for friend games like this. 

Time to make some *actual* friends.

We don’t have these fusses often but this is maybe the 3rd or 4th one we’ve had. When he ghosted us for months he only talked to me again when he noticed I had unfriended/unfollowed him since I was in my head like “Well, I guess L doesn’t want to be friends anymore.” 

My partner stood by me with all of this stuff happening. Through every spat me and L have had but he also holds me accountable when it is genuinely my fault. he does act as a mediator but he and L are similar in a lot of ways but me and my partner have never had an argument in the years we’ve been together and he agrees it’s immature and stupid when L does this. 

I’m very torn. I’ve known L a long time and I really don’t have many people in my life. He’s been there for me in the past and has helped me get through incredibly hard times but things are just so different now and it makes it easy for me to just shut down but I don’t want to be that person.

I would, but before I realized the depression was hitting, he stopped planning dates / hanging out with me / being affectionate and I would raise those issues. Now it's to the point where he feels overwhelmed and pressure from me because he "can't do anything right" which isn't actually how I feel, but it's how he says it makes him feel. And I'm worried that if I bring this up, it'll be yet another issue on the laundry list of issues, and he will just give up on us.

If you bought a house when he said he wasn’t ready, and freshly out of a PhD, you can’t really blame him for not being ready.

It’s a really tough job market what if the roles were reversed?

Have you tried telling him that although you understand, it’s affecting you immensely now and could he try to go out or do ( whatever activity) just for you? For your sake? Then when he does step out, he may find he actually feels better. I’m sorry you’re going through this, it sounds awful.

Sounds like she’s checked out if the relationship but too lazy to leave.

I think times like this can only be weathered when both parties put in as much effort, understanding, and openness as possible.

If he is unwilling to talk about it at all, even if its to hear your frustrations, then that will kill the relationship more than the income inbalance.

And the fact he is also not open about his own finances is troubling.

I have no trouble being the primary breadwinner in my relationships and have for the last two, but both times I and my partners were completely open and honest about the situation.

I couldn't be with someone who I was supporting who also didn't seem to be putting in the effort to find work when that is their goal, who had secret finances from me, and who refused to talk about the situation.

In short, supporting him isn't the problem IMO, it's the lack of honesty and unwillingness to talk about it

"A few months ago he told me to start looking for offers for plan B"

Why is he telling you what to do rather than asking you what you want?

"He then yelled that everything I listed were excuses, I screwed up and need to say that I screwed up" 

"Later I apologize"

You very clearly listed your goals. Plan A and Plan B. So what exactly are you apologizing for? You didn't skrew up, you just disagreed with him (though it doesn't sound like you verbalized that to him) and continued with you goals and your plan.

Do you feel good about your goals and plan on how to achieve them? You should be, because you have everything very well laid out here- you know what you want to achieve, the timeline you want to follow, and are doing that. So how exactly did you skrew up? Because you didn't listen to his order?

"that’s how he cares, whether it’s healthy or not."

I'm really worried about you. What you said here is really scary. You're already excusing his abuse and justifying it as acts of love. Love *should* be conditional.

 My abusive ex also cared about me, and the way he showed that was unhealthy and caused trauma. It sounds like you're ready to be a good victim for his abuse (and yes, yelling at your partner is abuse).

The only person I see needing to change their behavior is your partner, to be honest. I'm not hearing the ways in which he's helping/supporting you in working towards these (shared?) goals, just blaming you for not doing what he tells you to do. That does not sound to me like a healthy dynamic.

I don't think these people are your friends, dude. My friends and I have occasional fusses, but everything is usually cleared up by the next day. I could not imagine ghosting someone for 4 months and then expecting everything to be hunky-dory and accepted back. 

Does your partner also put you in "friend jail" when you piss off L? Do they stick up for you in those situations or do they just yes-man L?

Grown 39 year old man acting like that? It's manipulative and he's surrounded himself with "friends" that allow it. That sounds toxic af, find new friends, they're followers who obviously won't stand by you.

Thank you for the honesty. I just love him so dearly, and knowing who he is and who he can be when he's healthy makes the idea of leaving so much harder for me.

You do not owe this relationship your mental health.

Sounds like you're wasting your time fella

100% agree, everything you said just now is correct. I know she's manipulative.

But you originally said this:

every time you want to break up with her in person you back out of it because of the emotional manipulation

I'm just pointing out that she's the one to bring up breaking up most of the time. That is literally all I am trying to say LOL

i swear it happens my ex was addicted to porn and always accidentally screenshotting shit mid jerkoff like he had so many of them in his camera roll

I don't mean to be callus - but it's not your job to fix him. You're setting yourself on fire to keep him warm, and it's not even working.  Leave with love and find a real partner in life - not someone you have to care for and worry about.  He's got to fix himself before he's ready to be in a relationship.

My question would be what frequency are you aiming for? Like the other commenter said, 2-3 times a week is pretty often for a new relationship, especially for two people who both have busy schedules.

Also - what are you two doing during your time together? Are you having dinner and talking? Are you doing things together that don't involve a screen? Be mindful of the quality of time you are spending, not just the quantity.

This does not sound like a healthy relationship. You’re worried about gaining some sort of approval from this person - who by the way is not your daddy, he’s supposed to be your equal partner. This dynamic is going to lead to far worse if he’s already yelling at you and trying to dictate your career choices. 

I think you need to really take a step back and think about whether or not this is the life you want to live. If you’re a submissive type of person then I suppose it’s fine but if not then I’d recommend reevaluating.

in my opinion, it doesn't really matter if you love him or not because what you're actually experiencing on the day-to-day level isn't compatible with having a relationship.

Being in a relationship isn't a requirement. If it causes you stress and anxiety, you can remove yourself from the situation. Its ok to like and care about someone and ALSO know that the relationship itself is not a good fit for you.

Quick aside for my fellow men - are you accidentally screenshotting shit while jerking off?

They said we do it all the time, but tbh I don’t know if I’ve ever done it.

You're not perfect if being around him makes you feel bad. That's 100% the bottom line. You don't want to be in a relationship with him so the fair thing is to let him go find a girl who does wholeheartedly.

And please prepare to hear that you are further along than you think. A week ago you had sex and then yesterday you took a pregnancy test that was positive. You've been pregnant for longer than the week. Again, I'm so sorry. Sending love and healing.

You are indeed being unreasonable. Radical acceptance doesn’t seem like the path forward either, I think you need to examine and learn to manage your own insecurity and desire for control over your romantic partner. 

I know definitions of what constitutes infidelity/the gray area can vary among different people, but I think the views you hold are too rigid and out of touch with how most people operate - hardwired biological instincts usually coexist with healthy monogamous relationship practices without it being cheating. I think you’re setting yourself up for disappointment or relationships based on dishonesty.

If you're avoiding him and feeling panic instead of excitement to see him, that's probably your answer right there

Sorry to tell you but you likely got pregnant a while ago. You weren't using protection at all and expect not to get pregnant. It takes time for a pregnancy test to register as positive. It's not a next day thing.

Do it. Dont ruin your life. You can have a kid later on in life when you’re ready and with a partner who’s not a creep

That's reassuring. Do make an appointment as soon as you can. You've got this.

2 to 3 times a week is actually **more** then your average new relationship. I don't know what else you think you're gonna squeeze out of her schedule.

Because that was the first fucking time he didn’t pull out

In my state the age of consent is 18

Absolutely. Her story keeps changing.

Stop with that, you are a minor and he is a 24 year old adult man that started a relationship with a 17 year old. When you are his age it will absolutely shock you how young high school students seem and you will feel disgusted. I often came home on the weekends my freshman year of college and even seniors seemed like kids to me. What he’s doing is really gross.

Not with a 6-7 year age gap.

Sounds like she may not be that sexually attracted to you. You can possibly try to dress nicer, do things for her and improve your appearance a bit.

i only knew about the tiktok stuff because he had gotten a notif from tiktok that said “*exs name* posted- you watched” giving him a post notif because he had looked at her account. 
the paying for the nsfw art he had assured to me as something he was not looking at and hadnt looked at in over a year. i really trust him but i dont know if i can believe that or not. i personally had a patreon i havent unsubscribed to because i didnt have the app as well.. it wasnt nsfw though.

She doesn't drive or go out at all but it could be a co worker or something

Thank you so much this has been the kindest post on this thread I’m probably going to get an abortion

Love, you should have an abortion. I'm so sorry. He won't support you being a SAH mom. And let's say he does? What ground for growth will you have if you're being financially supported entirely by him? What about if/when he becomes horrible to you and you have no other option but stay in an abusive relationship because he provides all the home that you have, and you've dropped out of school to raise a kid that YOU don't even want? I'm so sorry. He didn't forget to pull out. Please get another opinion from your family. Hugs.

So why would you "freak out" a week ago and take plan b? You are full of it.

Doesn't matter, he's been committing a crime by being involved with you. 

Girl. Please. He is a loser. Losers who can't impress women their own age find young girls to manipulate and trap. Don't be one of those girls. Don't be a statistic. You deserve better.

You've been pregnant for probably 4 weeks, as pregnancy symptoms and a test won't show in 1 week. You have a limited amount of time to get help. 
Seriously. Talk to your parents. Talk to a medical professional. Report this to the police. Get an abortion. Do not tie yourself to this trash human.

You don’t sound mature or educated enough to be having sex with anyone…

Yes usually have to ask her she never approaches me.. caught her masterbating after she told me not to do it (2022)

You can not be with this man. Every comment you made and your post itself makes that absolutely clear. You’ll have to trust that everyone advising you to end it with this man is telling you what it is actually best for you. 

Abortion at the early stage is easy and short, you do not want to do a second trimester abortion if you don’t have to, they can be very hard on you mentally and physically.

If you break up with this man (absolutely do NOT become dependent on him) and really cut him off, get the abortion and go to college as planned, all of this is over quickly. In two months you’ll be starting an awesome new and exciting part of your life. You won’t have a doubt in your heart that you made the right decision.

You made a mistake, you’re not the first to make this mistake and it is far from the end of the world. Make the right decision, and you’ll be completely soon. 

Please do make that right decision. You have so much good things ahead of you if you do.

I’m scared my parents would kill me

Unfortunately, age of consent is 16 in New Jersey.

I don't think she is full of shit, I think she is very naive.

Edit: I turn 18 in 2 months so the age thing won't really be a problem soon. I also start college in the fall he convinced me to go to Rutgers my state school so I can be closer to him  

From your last post. He successfully baby trapped you and is now saying you need to drop out after saying you should go to college to be closer to him. Go tell your parents because they will find out eventually.

Age of consent is 16 in New Jersey, unfortunately. The cops won’t do anything.

Thank you. I said the same.

This man is going to ruin your life

He's been trying to get you pregnant

Absolutely nobody in their right mind is going to tell you to have the baby and settle down with this guy. Legal or not, you are a child now and even when you become 18, 24 years old is just odd. Yes it is only six years, but you guys are in completely different phases of life.

At 24 years old, I got my Masters, got married, and was in the process of getting my first "big boy" job in just a year at 25. At 18, I was a freshly graduated student with tons of freedom trying to figure it out. Two completely different wavelengths.

Holy cow. I was going to tell you that it doesn't matter because you're not 18 *yet,* but then I decided to look up "Romeo and Juliet" laws. TIL   that a sexual relationship between a 24-year-old and a 17-year-old is completey legal in 21 states (unless the older person is in a position of authority, like a teacher or coach) and "generally legal" in 7 more states! The only states it is generally NOT legal are AZ, CA, DE, FL, ID, NE, ND, OR, TN, UT, VA, and WI.

Regardless, if you don't want to carry or have a child, you do not have to carry or have a child. My main worry is that this dude (who is too old for you no matter what the laws say) is trying to baby-trap you. Please don't let him.

If I were you I'd call her out in the moment. "Wow did you just say x? That really hurt my feelings, why would you say that?" Every. Single. Time. Repeat the thing back, verbatim, state unequivocally that it really hurt, right then. 

See, when directly confronted with both their statements and the pain they've caused, people like that invariably apologize and acknowledge. There's no room for any other response because she would look like an enormous asshole if she responds poorly. 

Ive done this for years, every time someone is rude to me or rude to another person in front of me. Works like a charm.

Eventually she'll stop.

On another note, you can be upset with your partner for not sticking up for you, but you don't get to control his behavior, his friendships and who he buys gifts for. It's best you let that go.

Once you stand up for *yourself* you'll notice how much better you feel about things generally. It's all the hiding and the not being upfront and the pettiness that's ruining the group for you and *you can choose to simply be above it.*

That works like a charm too ;)

Nope. You would not have a positive test after one week. Simply impossible. You either were already pregnant or this is BS.

It kind of sounds like she might be in a relationship with someone else so she doesn't want to "cheat" on him but there's not enough context to know more. Did she always avoid intimacy?

Yea no more pull out

People are allowed to be "lustful" even if *you* have trauma.

But he's a liar and paying for things which is a different kind of line. If he had said "I'm sorry I know you don't like porn but I do and I'm not going to stop watching" then whatever the ball would be in your court. But he's hiding a lot of things and you feel the need to snoop all the time. 

Break up time.

He’s targeting you because of your youth because you’re only 17 and less likely to really grasp the gravity of dropping out of school to have a baby. You both would be totally and completely financially dependent on him. You barely know him and have no idea what he’s actually like. Your dreams, passions, education and career goals, hobbies, social life, travel will all need to be funded by him. What if he doesn’t like the friend you want to go shopping with? The dress or skirt you want? Your career choice? He will have total control and wouldn’t have to pay for it, he’d be able to say no. 

It’s a giant red flag he wants you to drop out at 17. A good partner that viewed you as an equal partner and whole person would want you to pursue your education and goals. Please, please get the pill before it’s too late, tell either your parents or trusted adult and block him.

Why in the world would you believe him?

The age of consent in most states is like 16-17...maybe 15 in some? Unfortunately.

If he is a loving, family person who cares deeply about people he loves, then does he love you? A loving person that cares deeply should be able to show empathy. Is it only with you he has this problem? If he can be kind, caring and empathetic towards others then he is capable of being like that with you and is choosing not to.

You weren’t when he knocked you up.

No he said he only dated one other girl in college

Thank you so much for your kind words; they’ve been a great help

What’s the legal age consent where you live? In my country is 15, so this wouldn’t even be technically illegal. Nevertheless this man is trying to baby trap you and prevent you from having a future so run run run

I know a lot of people are saying to go to the police, but for a lot of places age of consent for that sort of thing is 16, so don’t worry so much about that. 

I will say what seems like a good idea at 17 or when emotions get involved is vastly different than even 25 or 30 when you’ve had more time to learn about what you want in life. 

I think the best thing for you is to have an abortion, leave this guy, and get some therapy. I say this as someone who’s been in a similar position and needed that myself. 

I know there’s a lot of stigma and misinformation out there about abortion, please save yourself and don’t look it up. Most other species have built in mechanisms that will end a pregnancy due to stress, illness, malnutrition or other factors, there was some shift in human evolution that changed that. Abortion really is just medically correcting that change. It’s not as bad or as scary as people make it out to be. You’ll thank yourself later. A baby or a family sounds like such a wonderful thing when you’re in love, but not at 3am when you can’t get any sleep, and life isn’t going as well as you’d imagined. There’s nothing worse than the pain of looking back and all the opportunities and life you could’ve had, and how lonely it feels to do this at such a young age. 

If you can’t do this, it’s not the end of the world, people make it through it, it’s just not the best or easiest path.

You’re not overreacting and I think it’s time to admit that this relationship is not working based on emotional incompatibility. 

I couldn’t bare the pain of losing a pregnancy and my SO not comforting me. And to further add insult to injury “don’t be surprised if it happens again”. That’s callousness. 

The longer you stay with someone who doesn’t give comfort when you’re hurting or says callous things, the more lonely and sad you will become.

If you think the "pull out method" is effective birth control you should not be having sex.

She don’t wanna listen to anyone lmao just wants attention. Let her learn the hard way that he’s gonna cheat on her, beat her, manipulate and make them broke all while never caring for the kid cause he never wanted to be a dad he just wanted to be a pedophile and keep her around but as soon as she turns 20 he’s gonna be GONE and trying to get the next dumb teenager. Hope you don’t have a daughter cause he’s gonna go after her too. Good luck

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

You already know it is. 

It's also illegal. And it's not uncommon for background investigators to discover stuff like this post. You're risking arrest, fines, deportation, and even being barred from ever returning to the destination country.

He's probably preyed on girls younger than you. Protect his next targets.

18 is still a teenager. It’s right there in the word. EighTEEN. Just because you’ll be a legal adult doesn’t mean he didn’t exploit a minor. He set you up from the beginning.

Looking at the others post OP has makes this feels fake

Like I’m not what we’ve been fucking for months un protected go check my other post

You're a child who is pregnant with a child. Let yourself finish growing up first! You haven't even had a legal margarita, you don't know how much you're missing out so far. You've got so much time ahead of you, don't give up on your future for some jerk who cared more about his pleasure than your safety. 

Women die in childbirth, you know.

He did this on purpose to trap you with him, OP. He’s old enough to know pulling out is not birth control.

You're still a teenager. I'm 24 and the idea of dating a 17/18 years old is repulsive to say the least. Also, I'm sorry to say this, but a man who doesn't want to put a condom despite the consequences it would have on you, is a man who doesn't care about you and just want a much younger wife he can exploit. Leave him.

It wasn’t an accident. He did it on purpose to trap you and to prevent you from going to college. 

Break up with the man, get an abortion and look into contraception options for you for the future.

Rule 4 We do not allow terminology which is gendered or ableist as it contributes to an atmosphere of incivility. **Please repost this with edited language**. This may include any derivative of the words cunt, bitch, prick, whore, slut, hoe, fuckboy, thot, man up, manchild, or woman up. 
  

This is an automated message. **DO NOT REPLY**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

You sound like a very capable and accountable person to me with some pretty good plans. Accountability is not the same as mindlessly agreeing and following whatever he says.

Get an abortion. You're too young, you're not ready,  and you'd be tying yourself to a predator.

Do not ruin your life with a baby

Yeah that absolutely tracks with this type of creep. He got you pregnant on purpose.

That's fraud. You're not partners anymore, and yet you're talking about filing paperwork stating you are.

Yea in nj it’s pretty easy

That doesn’t change the fact that you are still a minor

Honey, you are still a teen and you are being abused by an adult man. It doesn't matter that you are almost 18. You need to talk to your parents or an adult who will help you. If abortion is available, you should at least consider it.

He's a major asshole and you should not move forward with him. He will find some other reason to nitpick you as long as you stay with him.

Do notttt drop out or listen to what this guy says, that is a fast track way to ruin your life.

That doesn’t make a difference. You should still go, as you were legally a child when you were groomed by an adult and coerced into this pregnancy. Also, please be aware in future that pulling out is not an effective method of birth control.

It's because he is grooming you. Have you paid no attention to the Epstein stuff? Grown adult men are only with teenage girls because they prey on their inexperience. This is an actual crime, my friend.

Classic toxic manipulative behavior. Please get an abortion. A child will tie you to this man for the rest of your life, which is exactly what he’s trying to trap you into.

He’s been trying to impregnate you from the start, then, if he’s refused to use condoms or any birth control.

If you have to think about it, he already is.

A pregnancy test wouldn't be positive a week after unprotected sex. 

That's how you know OP is full of shit.

Always wrap it up. If a guy refuses, don't have sex with him. He put his 2 minutes of pleasure above your health and choice.

The fact he's so happy makes me wonder if he wanted to baby trap you.

I hope you're somewhere where you can safely get an abortion. Cause that's what you should do and then block this guy.

You are being delusional. He took advantage of you, lied about cumming inside acting like he didn't know it was coming. And now he wants to totally alter your life by telling you how great it would be to have the baby. 

The age gap alone here is bad enough. This is what baby trapping looks like. Do not give up your future, and your ability to provide for yourself by having a kid now. You'll end up fully dependent on him, and that's a recipe for disaster for an 18 year old mom with a 25 year old bf.

It's not pointless - the actual sex happened before you were 18, which is all that matters.

Pulling out is a terrible form of birth control. It’s not what people do who are trying to avoid pregnancy. 
Use birth control pills, iud, condoms, etc. Not rhythm method and not withdrawal unless you want to be pregnant.

We haven’t been using protection ever besides pulling out

He's manipulating you. If he cared about your health and safety he would use protection

She said they've been raw dogging for a minute

I’m about to be 18 soon though

I’m not even trying to be weird but he always talked about how good our kids would look and how much of a good mom I would be

You’re not remotely overreacting. This man doesn’t have the emotional intelligence to have a dog, much less a fiancé. Please don’t have a baby with him, imagine what damage he’d do to a child.

You don’t fix anything. She’s the problem and so is your partner. You’ve tried talking to both of them and you get ignored and lied to. When people show you how they feel about you, listen. There’s not a damn thing you can do. If you try to bridge the gap and be nice, she will continue to shit on you and cross boundaries. Your partner is allowing it. He doesn’t care how you feel. Either you put distance between you and this friend group (and inevitably feel left out and alienated) or you continue to be disrespected. I would say there’s always an option of dumping your partner but I realize not everyone has that option.

Omg what I’m scared now we haven’t been using protection besides pulling out because he said it feels better for him

A pregnancy test wouldn't be positive a week after unprotected sex. Take another test.

I’m going to be 18 in a few weeks so I feel like it’s pointless

Are you sure you want to marry this person?

Please don’t ruin your future for a grown man who has no business dating much less impregnating a teenager.

Why do you want to move to her country? Is it for her or do you have other reasons to live there?

So people predicted this would happen in your last thread. Abortion and get far away from this creep.

Abuse victims have to move sneaky-like, so, to keep her from making a huge scen because you want to leave, or  just dealing with her being even worse than she is now, moving your things without her noticing is smart

Ahhhhh, that comment, got it! Bwahaaa!

See, she told you that she was trying to move on, so you texting her for any reason at all, was stopping her healing process, it didnt matter that you didnt get, but needed closure, sometimes, we have to be selfish to save ourselves, we cant be everything for everybody else, we deserve the same, you deserve the peace you will need to heal past this SHITSHOW of a relationship, and her shenanigans....BRUH, just DONT! 

Also, dont be afraid to be made into the person who ruined the relationship, let that person be someone else's problem, let her find someone else's life to make miserable, you escaped! See it that way!

Abortion, block his number, and get the hell away from him. He's a predator. Wouldn't shock me if he did it on purpose. He wants you to stay and be fully dependent on him so he can control you.

Your fiancé is not the boss of you. It’s your life and you get to choose how you live it. 

He sounds terrible and stressful to be around. Like everything you do has to please him.

Go to your parents. Then you should all go to the cops.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

 * It contains an external url.  URLs are not allowed on /r/relationships.  You must remove the url/link.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.
 * If you're creating an update, please follow the rules in our wiki and sidebar that describe how to submit updates.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to the content to ensure that the submission confirms to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Abortion and break up with the man who has no business being with a minor.

Someone who tells you that you deserve punishment for not doing what they told you to do is *not* someone to marry.

Just my personal opinion, unless you only plan to live in an area for a handful of years or less, renting is one big waste of money. 

Be cautious when house hunting, make sure you understand what needs to be done every year for basic maintenance and don't sink your $$ into a run down project.

Learn all you can about maintaining and adding to the equity of your home. 

Boyfriend wise...I got nothing. It dosent sound as though you two are in a similar place mentally, and his mother's obv going to be an ongoing problem.

If she's unemployed, check out some of the horror stories at r/JustnoMIL and make yourself a bingo card of behaviors to potentially look forward to, if he doesn't start working on living and making decisions about his own life.

Many people will tell you not to buy property without being married. I generally agree with that, but I think we should point out how this story seems to be a great example of why. 

It doesn't sound as if you and BF are on the same page about how to prioritize finances. And you've been together for 2.5 years! That's a long time to not have a pretty good idea of how your BF spends money. 

His mother also doesn’t work and has never worked, is married to a pilot and spend money like water, and she is giving him financial advice. The opposing opinions from both his mother and I are stressing him out. 

I think at 26 BF should be smart enough to start putting some distance between himself and mom. It sounds from your post like Mom is whispering in his ear, and he is turning around and repeating it to you. On the one hand, it's not like it should be a secret, but on the other, it sounds like she's actually capable of getting in his head on these issues. That's a problem. 

The problem with owning property with a BF is multifaceted but it ultimately boils down to the question of "what happens if it doesn't work out?" Unwinding that can be a huge cost, there can be fighting, and even if things go relatively smoothly, you could take a big loss if you have to turn around and sell quickly. 

Nobody can see the future, and people get divorced, too. But think about it this way - why aren't you and BF married right now? Presumably because one or both of you isn't confident enough in the future of the relationship yet. Which is 100% fine and the point of dating, but it IS a problem for property ownership.

are you sure there isnt another involved? this is why it is known that you dont mess with coworkers lol. you probably got off easy. let the infatuation fade and keep your head held high. you got this king 😤

You're not going to be able to understand because it's not something you'd ever do because you're not a bad person.

I’ve sent proof and he’s thanked me but I’m struggling to wrap my head around her actions

You can't 'justify' her cheating. It's a fucking terrible thing to do. She did it cause she wanted to. I'd send any proof you have to the boyfriend and just live your life man.

It’s not weird. You are both adults. Connection is difficult to come by, don’t waste it because of how someone else might perceive you.

just talk bro, i think if one develops an early muscle of confronting well then the chances you dealing with tough situations are likely higher and many  things later on might be even tougher if you have a long term outlook with your partner so ya just confront in a warm setup, let them take time as well and then move ahead

Dates make memories. It's not about money or being materialistic. It's experiencing life. It's soul food. It's fun and love. Or tears or learning or whatever. You should definitely tell him. But what I would say is it doesn't sound like he has the drive or oomph to do it. You will probably start to resent asking.  he may not deliver. Only saying this as I've been there too.

It sounds like he's interested, but also has concerns.  He doesn't want to been seen as a groomer or some kind of pervert.  Neither sounds true, so just keep communication open, be honest, and see how things go.  Anyone telling you there are "huge red flags" or warns you off without knowing a lot more about the parties involved are making some significant assumptions.  They are to be ignored.

Are you living in a studio, a one room flat? Why can't he be a normal human and just shut the door?

Ypu don't sound mature enough for this relationship, tbh. People don't usually need assurance about these things, we like what we like. It's ok to wait.

You're not the worse and definitely not being shallow or materialistic. Dates can be free too or not cost much. You absolutely deserve to be treated and made to feel nice by being taken out. It sounds exhausting. You should also feel cared for. He could pick you flowers if he doesn't have the money. He doesn't do it because he doesn't think to and that's rough.

She is torturing you. I mean that literally and has you jumping through endless loops and making you feel like a failure for a crime you haven't committed. This is psychological abuse. Its designed to make you feel inadequate. She is using DAVRO to subvert the focus from her insecurity to your potential wrongdoing. 

Its a horrible feeling to be cheated on, but it is HER responsibility to heal from it and to seek help. If she came to you with her traumas and to talk them out together it would be one thing but she is dismissing anything and everything you're trying for her sake when in all honesty, you should never EVER make yourself small so your partner feels validated for her own superiority to you. She is trying to breathe by pulling you under the water and implicitly telling you that its all your fault. It is NOT. 

This person is either so unhealed that they should be in intensive therapy before they can be in a healthy relationship or worse, they lack empathy all together. Reading your post made me angry, enraged, because she is lighting you on fire in hopes of getting warm. 

Save yourself, OP, please.

You're both legally consenting adults so you do you. But you being in your early 20s and him being in his 30s with a phd, there's going to be a considerable experience and life style gap there. What you find attractive and exciting now might become boring and suffocating later, and I think he's more aware of this (of course) than you are. He seems to be driving the connection and staying fairly neutral so far.

Bro has had almost a decade.to get his biz going

Yikes, these are the type of people you should not be listening too. Your both adults, anyone saying otherwise has some serious underlying emotional and mental issues. Do you due diligence, if it seems like he's not a good person then that's pretty much it

Your decision to make of course. 

The behavior you’ve described is neither professional nor platonic. You’re describing a romantic attachment with a dynamic of him setting standards you need to meet. You’re attracted and find the dynamic a turn on.

Zooming out of attraction- red flags here. Dynamics that hinge on the life experience gap relationships can be problematic. It’s also a flag that a man at his age is looking to form an intimate connection with somebody so young into their journey of being an adult. Usually it’s because they like the control.

I’m not trying to patronize you, but think of yourself at 13. That’s how you’ll feel about your 22 yo self by 31. Just so many life changes shift the things you can connect over. Coming from a group of progressive and laid back parents- this is gross behavior on his part. Perhaps you’re realizing that already.

I’d say pull out and

yeah maybe i should try talking to him about it but im scared that he will think that im making this up or smth idk. but ill think about it. thank u sm 🩷🩷

Based on your post, it sounds like he gave you number as a networking/mentorship thing and has kept the conversation there.   Idk what your interaction pre getting his phone number were but I sounds professional since and thus I would lean not interested.

Your both adults, anyone saying otherwise has some serious issues. Do you due diligence, if it seems like he's not a good person then that's pretty much it

He's sounding like this is platonic. If he's into you he'll eventually let you know. You could ask for a coffee date or if he's into doing drinks at some point that would help you see if there's a vibe. Do you know if he's straight though or if he's possibly secretly with someone that he feels no need to mention? This atp is an acquaintance.

Well, he's asked you to move out, so you will need to look for housing. You haven't paid rent in 8 months, so that's presumably a lot of money you have saved. 

Whether you continue in the relationship is up to you. You don't mention how long you had been together prior to moving in, so perhaps this is the end of the road.

Shit like this is why so many women are complaining they don't have a ring 6 years in.  What's the motivation if a guy has all the benefits of marriage already without the marriage?

attachment issues are rough man, been there with the whole hot and cold thing. good that you're seeing someone about it though, that's actually smart move since you're aware what's happening

  
maybe try being upfront with your bf about the pattern when you're feeling good about him? like "hey just so you know i might go distant for few days but it's not about you" or something. at least then he knows what's up instead of guessing

They are both adults, this isnt a child. Just stop.

He has seen his doctor a few times, had labs,now seeing a cardiologist. Got put on anxiety medication

If he is actively working to find the solution to this health problem, I would be supportive but talk to him about what you can do together to help weather this. 

If he is not actively working to find the solution I would have a heart- to- heart and tell him that this is not the kind of relationship you can see yourself in.

guy spent 9 years on this business and still cant focus enough to work with someone else in house? after 8 months living together he should know by now if you two can make it work in same space

  
moving out after he specifically asked you to move in feels like going backwards and you shouldnt have to find flatshare just because he cant handle basic adult cohabitation skills

Stop caring what others think. This is youre life. Being an adult is making decisions and accepting the consequences.

Sounds like this guy is staying within the boundaries of conversation he established. If he was adamant about sharing contact information then he may have intentions of learning more about you. Break down those barriers by suggesting that y’all talk more freely.

It’s the subconscious thought that you’re there and they have to think about you. What you’re doing, are you bothered. Even though you’re not. Your energy is there. It’s not the end of the relationship don’t worry at all (some may disagree here but I don’t). Coming from someone in a relationship with someone who owns multiple businesses and just launched a new one. You bring out his soft and caring side unintentionally. It’s a him problem. He wants to tunnel vision to his business venture. 

How did time together look/feel when you lived apart?

Sounds like he needs an office.

You can end the relationship without him agreeing. It takes just one person.

It's also OK to *not* be OK with taking one step forward then 2 steps back.

How is it a red flag? Nothing in her post indicates he’s a problem.

I had a similar situation when my partner was going through intense study, and she used to resent how much more free time I had compared to her. 

She used to try and find things for me to do to fill it up until I had a very honest conversation about it....she had no idea she was even doing it but did recognise where it was coming from and stop it cold.

Talk to your partner about it, this is a her issue she needs to work through.

You're asking us what you'd get out of it, I think you need to ask yourself that. Are you hoping he wants to get back together? If he tells you to fuck off and that he never actually liked you that much, will that make you feel better somehow? If he tells you he's not interested in being friends, will that help you?

"Closure" isn't a real thing and it isn't something he can give you. Honestly, you reaching out would most likely make him uncomfortable (most people don't feel good about having an ex reach out to them out of the blue). It's been years since you guys have talked to each other. It ended in an unsatisfying way, and that can definitely be frustrating, but you gotta figure out how to let it go.

will think about it. thank you!

Shit like this is why you don’t move in with someone you’ve dated for less than a year. Yall don’t even know if you’re compatible, and he doesn’t see living with you as compatible. You jumped in and now he’s realizing how much of an effect you have on his home life.

I felt slightly embarrassed..

Did him asking clarifying questions make you feel embarrassed? Or you see him as embarrassing for having to get clarification?

I mean, we choose to commit to partnerships with people knowing they are human and can/will go through difficult experiences that may be a period of time or effect the rest of their life like grief, illness, disability, traumas, and even aging. It’s understandable you are not as happy as before but also.. it’s only been three months and he’s literally going through an unexplained health condition that causes him physical discomfort. 

Maybe you could work with him and individually for compromises/solutions to your new situation. Do massage nights, get a babysitter at your place and have a date night at his, give him time and space to talk about how he’s struggling and what you can do to support him, have other social outlets like friends/family to go out with, etc.

Live life on your own terms buckaroo. Apply critical thinking. Look out for yourself.

man this brings back memories. had something similar happen when i was around that age and the whole "not worth fighting for" feeling really messes with your head.

  
four years is long time though and people change a lot in college years. if you do reach out, just be prepared that he might not respond or it could go completely different than you expect. sometimes closure comes from within rather than from other person, you know?

You have two problems here, neither of which are the situation-specific question of whether it's better to own a house or rent and put remaining funds into the stock market. 

First, the fact that your 26-year-old boyfriend is "stressed out" at the idea of his mom and girlfriend having different opinions -- about something that should affect his mother not at all, but is a core decision in his life with *you* \-- tells me he's a mama's boy.  And you should run away screaming from mama's boys.  If he prioritizes living his life according to his mom's opinions, then you can't have a proper relationship with him where you and he make decisions together.  This problem will impact numerous large and small decisions during the whole course of your relationship. 

Second, he's the one who sounds a little immature about finances if he can't form his own opinion about a topic like this.  It's important to get on the same page about big financial goals before jumping into any commitment like marrying or buying a house with him.  And by the same page, I don't mean him finally telling you what you want to hear.  I mean him being informed about the options and genuinely concluding that he agrees with you.

If he is pursuing this, that is a huge red flag on his part.

Crushes happen. Stop texting with him and let it go.

For future reference you should know that THC of any kind has different onset times and also depends on your tolerance, what you had eaten/drank already, delivery method, etc. and being in a moving vehicle often strengthens the effects for people. If you have so little of a tolerance that you couldn’t even answer your phone after a third of a THC seltzer you really should not be using any form of THC and trying to drive. I’m sure you know you could have seriously hurt or killed yourself or someone else. 

But anyway. You did the right thing by immediately pulling over when you realized you weren’t okay, and I would seriously rethink the reliability and trust for your boyfriend.

This is really helpful, thank you. You're right; it's not really a conflict. She is hurt at the moment, and I can feel that. I know what I need to do; it's just about actually doing it consistently. The idea of virtual date nights is something I hadn't really thought about; I'm going to look into it. I appreciate it; I really want to make this work any way I can.

Extensively. He just says he can't help that he feels bad, that he doesn't choose to feel this way, and that I should be more supportive basically

I think one of the main things you should clear up with her is what her underlying feeling is since it might change things drastically. 

- She could just be *jealous*. In that case, she truly needs to work through this by herself. What you can do is maybe examine your own mindset when it comes to her and her situation. For example you say that she "hasn't taken the leap" to leave her own job, but if she helps her parents with money as well, then maybe she simply *can't* leave her job. You are, compared to her, from a privileged background and you might not be able to see just how much she really needs her job because you don't understand just how much she pays for.

- Her being upset might come from *wanting an ambitious partner*. Many people want someone who has 'their life together' because they value stability and/or see an ambitious partner as an attractive partner while "being lazy" is seen as unattractive or even as 'dangerous' (aka "that person may one day want to leech off of me"). Her becoming upset might simply be from her not being attracted to someone who wants to take a career break, even if you can afford it and there's nothing wrong with it. People are attracted to different things in life - some people want a partner who prioritizes free/family time, others want someone who is a hard worker. Your personality might simply not fit what she is attracted to anymore and with the career break, this incompatibility now shows. 

- Her feeling might be *resentment*. That would be the worst case. The truth is that many of the things you are saying, like "I hate chores" when it is completely normal and shouldn't even been mentioned that you help with chores at her place or you saying that you haven't figured your life out yet at 30 are... somewhat weird statements. I think it's normal that at 20, no one has figured their life out yet, but with 30, most people know what they want, many are already married and have kids (if they want any) and generally, with 30, you should be a functioning adult. If she feels that you aren't and that you are entitled and complaining a ton about things that are completely normal and which you should have figured out, then she might have started to look down on you and your mindset. While this isn't much different from the other two possibilities mentioned above, resentment or being disgusted by your mindset is basically a relationship killer. Other emotions can be worked through a lot more easily, but resentment is a much more negative, destructive thing that can switch to hate pretty easily. 

It might simply be that you two are incompatible in many ways - what you want out of life, what you want and need from a partner/a partner's personality and more. You need to really sit down and have an open talk. And if you find that she can't or doesn't want to have that talk, then the relationship might be a lost case because open communication is one of the things a relationship needs to be healthy and lasting. If open and honest communication isn't possible and she doesn't want to improve upon that, then you might just call it quits already.

I guess I just really want to be there for her and to grow as a couple. But I understand there is only so much I can to help if she’s not willing to do the inner work. thanks for sharing.

Plenty of couples figure out finances differently, but they still need shared goals. If his mothers opinion automatically outweighs hers every time, thats going to become a problem far beyond buying a house

Will he see a doctor?

Could be she's worried this temporary situation could become permanent, last a year or more or thinks this might become a habit every time a job or whatever situation stresses you out...including anything she does which sounds like what she's doing to you, now.  I'm not saying she's right and you need to put yourself first no matter how upset it makes her

Have you spoken to him about it? If he is non responsive to a conversation about his partner being unhappy, idk what else to say about that if you want to stay with him

You're not wrong that I knew who he was when I married him. And I'm not asking him to become someone different.

I think what I was really looking for when I posted this was just people who get it. Because in real life everyone either tells me to be grateful or doesn't understand the world we're in.

And honestly the responses here have helped more than I expected. I've already started doing my own thing more  I've been working on a business idea using his AI actually, which has been surprisingly good for my own clarity. Turns out having an entrepreneur husband rubs off on you eventually 😅

So maybe you're right. Find my own thing. I think I already am.

But this doesn't really sound like a conflict resolution issue, because you admitted that you're mostly at fault for it, and she seems more sad and hurt than angry or opposed to you. There isn't really a conflict to solve, it's more about you taking action to address what you already know is causing the problems.

I've been in a long distance relationship for two years, and this past year we finally closed the distance. When you're long distance, it takes effort to maintain communication, and you have to be aware that you can't be as complacent as you can when you're seeing each other in person all the time. You need to remember that when you're apart, all she has to go on is your words and your communication.

Send those good morning texts. Check in randomly throughout the day with a text, a meme, or whatever. Have those calls after work. Schedule video calls and little virtual date nights. Watch movies together online through Discord, Watch Party, or another app. Send pictures of things that remind you of her. Small things like that mean a lot because they show that you're thinking about her.

If you struggle to remember because it's out of sight out of mind, then you'll need to build habits around doing these things. Set alarms on your phone if you have to, and remind yourself to text at certain times until it becomes natural for you. If those things feel like too much effort then that is probably your answer to whether it is worth fighting for.

Okay fair,  I'll take the 'selfish' feedback even if it stings a little.

But I want to push back on one thing. I'm not sitting around waiting for him to tell me I'm pretty. I'm a fourth year pharmacy student, I run races, I've been building my own thing on the side. I have a life. I have goals. I'm not lacking purpose.

What I was expressing (maybe badly)  is that it's hard to watch someone you love disappear into something even when you're proud of them for it. Those two things can exist at the same time.

And for what it's worth I've actually started using his AI myself to work on my own business ideas. So if anything this whole situation pushed me to stop waiting and start building something for myself too. Maybe that's the silver lining.

The date night idea is actually solid though. I'm going to bring it up.

Yes, I know! I said it a million times in this thread, I *know* she's manipulative.

You said this:

very time you want to break up with her in person you back out of it because of the emotional manipulation

I'm just pointing out that she's the one to bring up breaking up most of the time. That is literally all I am trying to say LOL. That's it. I don't disagree with you at all.

This is genuinely really helpful and I've read it a few times. The part about 'would you love a lesser version of him' hit me harder than I expected.

I think the honest answer is no. The ambition is part of who he is and I fell in love with that. Watching him build this AI from scratch, seeing how much he believes in it, knowing the kind of people whose knowledge went into it I actually find it incredible when I'm not in my feelings about it.

I think what I'm really struggling with is feeling useful. Like I want to be part of what he's building not just waiting on the sidelines for it to be over. I've actually started using his AI myself to work on some of my own ideas and that's helped more than I expected  at least now I feel like we're building in the same direction even if we're not always in the same room.

The targeted time idea is something I'm going to actually try. Thank you for this.

I’m not financially dependent on my partner at all, we don’t even live together. But I feel my partner resents me for having an easy life now while she has to work everyday. How do I help resolve this resentment she has of me?

She's definitely resentful. You literally don't even live together, so she doesn't even see or feel the effects of you not working. She only knows because you've told her, which means it's entirely about what she's telling herself about the situation. You can't "help her resolve" her negative feelings. Her feelings are for \*her\* to manage and deal with. It's entirely an internal job. There isn't anything for you to "do" here.   
I get the impression that it may be uncomfortable for you not to jump in and try to "fix" something or "start a conversation." But I'd encourage you to resist that urge and remind yourself that you are not responsible for fixing her feelings.

It is really REALLY tough to be in a relationship where money handling is not on the same page.  I have been happily married for 26 years and the WORST fights me and hubby have ever had have always been about money, where its going, where should it go ect.  I repeat, I am VERY happily married but man did we have some conflict in our marriage, especially early on.  You need to get on the same page with BF.  Your MIL is dumb as hell about money and you kind of need to point that out to your bf.  If he would rather listen to mommy than you, well, you have your answer.  It doesn't matter that he is sweet/wonderful/amazing most of the time.  THIS problem is a huge problem in almost all relationships and its really important to be on the same page, and going in the same direction.

1. Don't buy a house with anyone you aren't married to

2. You can't do anything about MIL. Either your BF / husband makes your boundaries clear and enforces them, there isn't anything you can do.

3. Everything depends on the relationship your BF has with her. You can't make him choose you over her, and it could be the end of the relationship.

That specific incident is clearly emotional manipulation meant to stop you from going on the trip. To the point where she's suggesting that if you go, the relationship is over.

Calling your son's girlfriend "immature" because you disagree with her is not "worrying".  It's condescending and insulting.

If you are in the US - DO NOT BUY A HOUSE WITH A BOYFRIEND. 

At least not without talking to a lawyer and drawing up paperwork.

You don't need to be cold and distant. Just ignore him. Treat him like any other person you don't know.

That's toxic and naive. It's over or it's not.

She’s their only daughter. She is studying abroad alone so they are worried about her. They are attached to their daughter. Of course they dont want to ruin their daughter’s life so they are involved as she asks them for advice and shares her feelings to her parents

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Can you expand on this. I’ve been married for five years and our parents have never even met (courthouse wedding).

Why are they so involved in your relationship?

If you are trying to live your Life on Hard Mode right at the moment the world is the most open, and stay there for the next 2 decades (and likely more), then go ahead and send it.

On what level does any possible reward from this kind of situation sound worth the risk?

“Best friends” at 19 and 15? Based on what?

The above submission has been **removed** for at least one of the listed reasons:

* It appears to be a wall of text, and needs to be broken into paragraphs. You need to add two returns between paragraphs for reddit to show them.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error, please contact the moderators and include your problem.
* You accidentally submitted a block of code to r/relationships.

You must make a new post with the amended information. Please ensure that the submission complies to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

That's life. 

You're going to have to learn to coexist with lots of people you don't like in your entire life. Learn to deal with it.

She has a habit of telling her mum about all our arguments even if its small

I know this is fucked up and trust me I’m riddled with guilt all around, hence why I said I’m not looking for more comments about how terrible this all is. 

I know it’s not an excuse but he and his wife have both cheated on each other multiple times, so it’s not like she’s blameless but I know only have his side of things

Thanks, it's gonna be hard to shift my mindset they've been controlling my entire life. And it's gonna be really uncomfortable getting out of my zone. Thanks a lot I'll see how things go.

Yeah you’re south asian I’m guessing. Let her go because you will not put her needs above your parents’ BS. She needs a man who will stand up to his parents. If she’s contacting you, be honest and say you don’t have the strength to change and you don’t want to waste her time.

He is 15 years older than you and has a wife. Him wanting to “lay low” suggests that he is selfish and lacks respect for both you and his wife.

The above submission has been **removed** because:

 * It contains an external url.  URLs are not allowed on /r/relationships.  You must remove the url/link.  If you feel you are receiving this message in error or are confused, please contact the moderators and explain your problem.
 * If you're creating an update, please follow the rules in our wiki and sidebar that describe how to submit updates.

You must make a new post with suitable edits to the content to ensure that the submission confirms to **all the rules** listed in the sidebar, and in the wiki (relevant for mobile users).  When you are done, please repost your submission.  

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Whatever you do, use a condom.

I know, it’s both true and horrifying. You aren’t gonna believe me but I’m happy in my long term relationship. It’s my first one several years long and idk I think the novelty of this is what sucked me in. I swear it’s like it happened faster than I could react. Now it’s really fucking me up in the head

You were best friends for 8 years *before* you dated? So you were a 17 year old boy with a 13 year old girl for a "best friend"?

Your parents aren't dating her, YOU ARE.

One day you'll be moved out and on your own.  Don't let your parents opinions dictate your life.

If you like this girl and she isn't a murderer, go for it.

You don't need to tell your parents everything.

He just said he needs to “lay low” for a couple weeks so I’m thinking about it

You’re 29 years old. 

You have to make the decision about how you want things to be going forward.

- How much effort you’re going to put into these relationships 

- How much influence they’re going to have on your life

- How much their presence or absence is going to mean to you, your husband, your future kids

Then you decide.

If your mom is worried about appearances, thats her deal to figure out. If you don’t jump to her tune she’s probably going to lie to make sure that at least *she* looks good. So…? 

If aunt and sis aren’t going to mend fences what’s the point of you bending?

And if your abusive older sister is “done playing games”, you can be too.

You’ve just got to decide.

Ok so heres how it usually goes down

We have a small disagreement, like, for instance, a few days ago I wanted to go back to California to visit my friends and she said she wasn't comfortable with that. I ask her why and then she starts getting upset and gives me the silent treatment for a few hours. Eventually I get her to start talking and she tells me she is uncomfortable with it and gets more and more visibly upset and eventually it escalates to the point where she says "ok if you really wanna go back to California lets just break up, just break up with me and then you can do whatever you want" while holding back tears.

I don't understand how that is to manipulate me feel like the bad guy. To me it sounds like she just wants to break up and I'm just too much of a coward to say "ok lets break up then"

Is there some cultural context you can provide? It’s weird in my culture that your parents would be involved in this.

Generally, any relationship where one person insists that the other needs to “fight for us” or “win them back” is not a good one.

Love existing doesn’t mean that a relationship is good or healthy or should continue. Love is the easiest part and requires no effort to exist. The rest is what is difficult, and the rest is what needs to work for the relationship to succeed.

You really sound like you need counseling to deal with your relationship with your parents whether you get back with this woman or not. If you don’t your mom will obviously keep sabotaging all your adult relationships. 

And showing you are in therapy and learning some boundaries with your mom could help heal the relationship. 

But it’s going to be a PROCESS, not a one time talk with your mom thing. And you need to make that clear to yourself and her. She may want to wait, she may not, but either way you absolutely need to do it for your own mental health.

hi OP. i was in this same situation as you. ex and i were in a relationship for 9 years and found out he was in contact with escorts after seeing a strange notification flash on his phone. he trickle truthed me for the longest and the only reason i got the full truth is because i would uncover more and more. what hurt me most was that this was a person i regarded so highly that had no regard for me and the impact of his actions when making them. it completely flipped my world upside down and my ability to blind trust a romantic partern. 

stupidly of me, i tried to work it out with him and stayed with him for a few more years thinking I could get over it. he was my first boyfriend/love and everything. i've never even lived alone before and was scared to be alone. so much our lives were intertwined and we grew up together.

  

but we finally went our separate ways. the resentment never went away. i could never trust him again even when he did everything “right”. when he touched me, my body would recoil. our relationship still continued to suffer even after attempted reconciliation because there foundation of our relationship was broken. i thought I could be the 1% to get over it but it’s really true that once trust in that manner, it’s nearly impossible to rebuild.

  

my only regret was staying so long and not having the courage to choose myself when I first discovered his infidelity. I’m in a much better place now and found out that life without him is not so scary after all.

I mean you can't change her feelings for her, you can talk with her about it and be there for her when it comes to stress around her work. All the rest should depend on how that talk goes.

I'm 39 and I play hockey with a bunch of 23 year olds. There is nothing remotely appealing about kids that young!!! 

OP I'd put some distance between you and this woman, she might be grooming you. You are young and no level-headed 40 year old should be setting her sights on you.

Parents are involved because of a pre engagement ceremony between both families. We couldn’t break up alone as parents needed to be involved. My ex does want a apology from my mum , my mum was wrong and she does need to apologise i agree with her

Then go be with her. True love. So beautiful.

This HAS to be a bot account, there’s no way someone this old runs to Reddit like this.

Major cultural context needed - why are your parents so involved? Is this an arranged marriage situation? There is no need for your parents to be in your romantic business if not. If your ex wants an apology from your mother for what she said in order to move forward that's another thing.

You’re still talking about taking a stand with your parents but haven’t!!!  You’re more afraid of your mom than losing your girlfriend.  Leave her alone.

I promised her i will be there for no matter what.

Then why don’t you do it?

The reason why parents are involved its because we did a pre engagement thing between both families thats why parents are involved

Run… run far away from her man. This is a no-win situation, IMO.

To make you feel sorry for her and afraid of being the "bad guy." Obviously. This is why everyone is telling you to get therapy, you're very naïve about what's going on in your responses to other people

I just fear alot with my parents honestly. My mum has a different mindset. She grew up without a mother

I definitely plan to have a conversation with her. Her resentment of something I have felt though I might be wrong, but I’m also unsure if she can recognise it herself. I tend to be the more emotional attuned one in the rls. We have no plans to move in together as lgbt couples are not allowed to have own housing, and she has never raised thoughts about renting. She does have plans to buy her own place solo though she hasnt made concrete plans for that and is not allow to do so until 5 years later bc oh government policy. so if we do move in it would be many years ahead.

If you're willing to do it...then do it. That's the answer

The fact that she insists on BOTH your parents being involved in relationship decision-making is a red flag. 

You need to move on son. This ain’t it.

Tell her to fuck off

I know thats the truth but at that time i didn’t think twice . I am more happier with her than my parents. And I am willing to change this for her and myself. I see a future with her

If you do get her back you will have to continue to stick up for her against your mother. If you aren't prepared to do that there will be no point in getting back together.

You’re rounding 30, what do you mean you CAN’T block her?

What's stopping you from talking to your parents?

She messaged me saying she wants to have sex with me

Then you want this silly drama.  You are a grown man, act your age not your shoe size.

Don't do it bro. Nothing about this seems fine.

No, your priority is to keep your parents happy even if that means losing her. This is what your actions say and this is why she broke up with you to begin with.

You've outgrown the relationship. Your gf is too enmeshed with her family. Move to the new job, dump your gf, and never look back. You'll find somebody amazing who vibes with you in no time. Good luck!

Okay, so whatever happens as a result is on you. Best of luck, no one will help you if you're not willing to accept harsh and truthful advice.

Thanks for this. I can see how a therapist might help but she might not be able to budget for a therapist as it can be costly where I live, almost like a luxury sigh. But before someone go to a therapist they must first recognise there is an issue to be receptive to therapy which I find to be difficult for her.

I'm not trying to argue I'm just saying I think you misread what I wrote. She is the one who brings up breaking up a most of the time not me.

Honestly, just do whatevwr you want, that will make you happy.

Dealing with this type of drama from people that dont give you the time of day any other time, is ridiculous.

People that can't be respectful and share your life in normal circumstances, arent entitled to be invited to your wedding simply because they are "family".  Decide who you actually want at the wedding, and reply accordingly.   Everyone else can F off.

My priority is to get her back and work on my flaws

I would find a boyfriend who isn't a mammas boy and go yourself your own house.

Let her go. Get therapy.

At this point you're wasting your time and hers. It's clear where your priorities lie, and that's your prerogative but you're going to have to be honest. Sit her down, tell her exactly what you're thinking and if she still wants to keep engaging and hoping, that's on her.

You should have a frank conversation aboit it, from the post we don't even know she resents you, it might be you misreading stuff. Could it be that she thing this will delay stuff like moving in together and is somewhat unhappy because of that?

its literally impossible to know whether you'll be able to reconnect later. so much change happens so quickly, especially at your age. Compatibility isn't predictable.

  
No, you shouldn't talk to her parents first. You might MAYBE consider telling them after the fact, if you think they need to be watchful of her health/safety, but your relationship is with her, not them.

If you don't want to help then why did you respond to me lol. Seems like you just wanted to tell me I'm sexist

As others have mentioned take a look back objectively as to whether youve cancelled plans for her too much. 

But as an introvert myself, I find extroverts often want to improse their social life on you (the introvert). And assume the extrovert lifestyle is the healthy life style. I would also keep this in mind. 

At the end of the day you should have a health support system OUTSIDE of your girlfriend.

I do want to speak to my parents but i need the strength 😭 . We both don’t want to let go of each other. I haven’t stopped her from moving on. I have told her to stop contacting but she still does and I won’t block her either

Ask for distance, if she won't respect the request, block her. Move on dude.

She keeps messaging me and even calls me. She asks me so many questions

I think she needs help sitting this out herself with a therapist if possible. But suggesting that might offend her.

This woman is trawling for a baby; not even a relationship. i would back way off.

Girl, go buy you a house.

This is the rest of your life if you marry this guy.

She's told you what she needs you to do, so either waste no more time and do it asap, or let her go. It sounds to me like you're still reluctant to lay down the law with your parents and are therefore looking for ways to work around that or kick the can down the road. Don't bother. Either take her seriously or let her find someone who will.

This would be a no-go in my opinion. I’m 38 and the thought of dating someone 23 yo makes my skin crawl—the difference in life experience is so significant. Also, the baby thing? Do you REALLY want a baby at 23? Because having one immediately would be the only way to make sure you have one with her, and having to make a rush decision isn’t a great way to start out parenthood.

Its a combination of all four, but what's pushing the feeling of "we cant stay away from each other" is the risk involved of being caught. The escapism leads to this feeling like a fantasy where everything feels perfect reality where no one gets you like he does. If we look at genuine compatibility as you said, I've learnt a few things about this man. 1. He is a liar: willing to lie to his wife who is the person who he's the most close to in this world (its useless to argue that you know this man better than the woman who's known him for years and sleeps beside him every night).     .2.  He puts his wants and pleasures above anyone else's. We've read that he's promised his wife that he'll change and that he's sorry of breaking her trust, feeling whatnot, but then disregards that and goes straight back to you.      3. He likes the power of having you . For him at almost 40 sneaking around with someone in their late twenties probably is an ego boost for him. The differences in life experiences between the two of you will never be equal and seeing as you drove 3 hours to see him speaks volume on how you're at his beck and call.

This sounds so messy and complicated. Let it go, for both your sakes.

Either he tells his mommy to go away or you date someone else.

You say youre not looking for people to tell you that affairs are bad, so I wont say that. Instead, Ill say that you and this affair partner are both bad people and that youre doing is pathetic and reprehensible.

Even as this guy's poor wife is fighting with him and having mental breakdowns, you two are just plotting when/how youll get together again and how to keep sneaking around. 

And yet there isnt a shred of self reflection or admission that what youre doing is bad, its all about the novelty for you, because you're a sociopath that is getting off on the excitement.

With any luck, this whole thing blows up in your face and the wife of that sack of trash youre cheating with leaves him after wringing every dollar she cant out of him. 

Or this is just some weird AI-written fake story you generated because it's the only way to get any interaction with people.

What you're looking at is something that maybe could've been genuine compatibility, but is dead in the water. The foundation is far too rocky for this to be a healthy relationship, and it's hurting/will hurt everyone around both of you including yourself. There's a thrill and excitement around doing things we're not supposed to, and that is part of what makes relationships like this so addicting, even though they are toxic and doomed to fail. You're still young and making mistakes that have serious consequences. You seem to be aware of that, but it hasn't been enough to make a different decision. If you want something wild that's going to hurt everyone around you, you're in the right place, but I don't think you'll like how it turns out in the end

You say you hardly have any relationship with her but then said you texted her pics of your dress pretty much right away. These two things are in conflict with each other.

Break up with your bf

The problem is I think, she gets really emotional and hysterical when things don't go her way

I'm not interested in arguing with you, stay in your terrible relationship if you want to, I don't care 🤷

Sounds like hiding/sneaking is making this thrilling for you. Willing to bet if you two got together it would fizzle really fast and you would just have regret.

You got excited and in your excitement you made a shitty decision. New potential relationships are exciting! The energy is addictive! But you fucked up man

Tell him flat out his mother is wrong and show him the proof: articles about how owning a home creates generational wealth, the numbers you've worked out.  Tell him to stop telling her all his plans, because she keeps negating them.

If he decides he doesn't want a house, but you decide to marry him, arrange for a prenup so that if you two divorce, you get the house.

Your wedding, your rules. Tell your mom and sis to stuff it, but in politer terms so you don't escalate it any further. Good luck!

A: this couldn't possibly be true 
B: it's HORRIFYING!

Where's your boyfriend in all of this? Are you unhappy in your relationship ? What about the poor wife ?

I feel too close to the situation to tell whether I’m looking at genuine compatibility, mutual obsession, addiction, limerence, intermittent reinforcement, or just two people making increasingly irrational decisions.

Probably all of the above. Regardless, this affair is messy and harmful. I think you should seriously consider getting out of it.

Sounds casual. Casual doesn't mean he dislikes you. It just means it's not going to be long term or headed toward commitment.

It’s understandable to be a non confrontational person, I relate to that. But that generally peaceful interaction style becomes unimportant to me when it’s about someone I love getting hurt/treated poorly or topics that are meaningful to me. There’s a difference between being easygoing and prioritizing people-pleasing over the most important people in your life. It may be something he is unwilling to change in which case you know he won’t have your back in situations like this.

Honestly, I would do very little and just let her screw this up herself. I doubt your non confrontational boyfriend will ever say something publicly (you have to decide if that’s a deal breaker for you). 

She clearly doesn’t like you and can’t control herself around alcohol. So long as you keep hanging out with this group, those two traits will inevitably lead her to crashing out publicly, then it won’t be up for debate whether she hates you or not and the group will likely choose sides. Just don’t be drunk when it happens or you’ll both just look like the drunkest girl at the party. Rising above is a long con solution, but it works.

Sorry this is happening. A girl in my group (who I always suspected had a problem with me) tried to choke me after a night of drinking. It’s not fun realizing just how much someone hates you when you’ve never hated them.

Dont let people you don't care about dictate any aspect of your wedding.

How are we meant to know?

**No AI-generated content is allowed in posts or comments. Posting or commenting with AI-generated material may result in an instant ban**

Somebody that tells you to keep driving when you are obviously not feeling I could have safe does not care about you. And of course it's the equivalent of if it was his daughter and that was the correct question for you to ask him. What he told you pretty much is he doesn't care about you as much as he does his daughter. Now that might be normal because it is his daughter after all. But that doesn't mean the level of caring or his actions should be any different.

He's just being a nice 20 year old guy. 

Even if he does have feelings for you,  you both know he isn't ready.

The above submission has been removed because our AutoModerator has found that your post may be dealing with rape or sexual abuse in some way. If you are seeking direct advice on dealing with such a situation (or are asking if something constitutes rape), we ask that you please post instead to /r/rape, /r/rapecounseling, or /r/secondary_survivors (if someone you know has been abused). These communities have dedicated userbases that can provide and better guarantee the sort of sensitivity, support, and protection that may not be available here in /r/relationships. Please understand that you have done nothing wrong in posting here in the first place. We hope you understand that we are trying to make sure you get the best possible help available and give you the benefit of our experience in moderating this subreddit.  If you believe you are receiving this message in error, please message the moderators for reapproval.

Click here (once) to request reapproval and then click send **once** only.

The reapproval is manual, so send a **single request** only. Multiple requests do not mean faster approval, in fact they may clog the modqueue and result in reapprovals taking even more time.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/relationships) if you have any questions or concerns.*

This is what happens when you ignore red flags. Saying bs like "my love helped him heal" will get you to a point like this.

If you had chosen to have self respect when he mistreated you at the beginning of the relationship, then you wouldn't have wasted a decade of your life. 

At least grow up now and stop wasting more time on this pos. If you still choose to stay with him, then you have no one to blame but yourself.

tolerance differences can metastisize into ugly situations. if someone is a seasoned insomniac and they deal with someone who is sleeping 8 hours a day with consistent sleep hygiene, both ending up with 2 hours of shifted sleep.... can you guess who is handling it better? there is cortisol and bloating and possibly an irritated GI tract. THC is psychoactive - literally fires your dopamine and serotonin receptors. 

firstly, he should have respected your choice of taking THC at home. people need trip sitting when they try substances initially.... it doesnt matter if you had one sip or a few.

secondly, driving while high is literally dangerous on so many levels. i dont know how much time it takes for an average joe to get the effects of THC kick in via the stomach... but im quite sure its slower than the smoking (which causes atherosclerosis BTW)

lastly, the usage is not great itself.... i dont want to make this whole thing about the weed infused drinks. but grow up please.... drink coke zero.

I just left a 20 year marriage to my childhood best friend and boy next door. I’m 47. We’ve been in each others lives for 33 years! But that relationship was not working for us any longer. 

It was the hardest thing I’ve ever done. Truly brutal. 

It sounds like this relationship isn’t serving you anymore and that’s ok. You can leave it. Marrying your high school sweetheart is overrated fairytale nonsense. You are NOT who you are going to be yet at that young age, and committing to someone for the rest of your life before you’ve had a chance to really LIVE is dumb. 

Leave the relationship behind. It will be ok.

No, you shouldn't use the plagiarism machine that destroys the environment to answer your relationship questions for you.

How desperate are these women? 

"He would call me and ask me to explain why we should be together and what I bring to his life. "

The correct response to this is a harsh ultimatum the first time. The correct response the second time is to hang up and send a breakup text. 

Imagine having such low self worth that you put up with this and try to "fix" him. That's genuinely gross.

Thank you! 

He's a very non confrontational person, I mentioned I was going to leave the group chat we all share and he asked me not to. I truly think he is just trying to avoid drama, but I don't understand it at the cost of the drama it causes at home. 

I'm fairly comfortable standing up for myself and have mentioned it before, I just can't tell how reasonable the expectation of wanting him to say something himself is

She's jealous. 

It is commonly accepted wisdom that a home is usually a person's biggest investment. Unless you buy into a bubble or buy just to flip, home ownership is a much better financial decision than renting. 

Why pay your landlord'a mortgage when you should pay your own?

I ruined a relationship that way, my thing was building PCs and trading PC parts. at the moment I have an open surgery laptop. two mid tier PCs. one old one with a DDR3 system and one that is just an empty shell (mb, but no cpu no gpu with psu)

the point is... id spent day and night with my partner talking about what she should build and what changes I would make to my build. constantly talking about tech... it really took away from our relationship. she liked it at first, but being a non-techie it really started to get on her nerves about a year in. I also enjoy the zaza, and when we split, I didnt take the breakup well, started smoking more mary jane and developed some mental health issues where i was not able to discern reality from my brain thoughts/waves. I dont mean to scare anyone but its just that when you start to put all your efforts (energy, time and money) towards a goal that your partner may or may not approve of... its a part of YOU, not a part of the relationship. there is a time and place for everything. 

you should talk to a psychologist, IF NOT a psychiatrist; these are symtoms of psychosis when the brain just finds coping mechanisms and pathways in what is comfortable.

Personally, I would naturally feel offput, disturbed, and dislike a person who was consistently rude to my partner. You can and should stand up for yourself in the moment and put the focus on her when she bullies you (whatever fits your personality and group dynamics) like: “That’s a weird thing to say to someone. Are you feeling alright?” “Did you want to rephrase that?” “Did you mean to say that out loud?” “please don’t speak to me like that”. But also your partner should be a team with you and generally feel an urge to defend you. You could open a dialogue with him on why he doesn’t feel that way.

If you're looking for things that cost money, then yes, you are with the wrong guy.  If you are looking for thoughtful gestures, then ask for those.

Mothers worry. Some more than others.   
That's all she's doing.   
She could learn to worry quieter, but she probably won't.  

Your bf could learn to not take her worrying so seriously, or just stop involving her in all his decisions if he can't tune it out.

You are absolutely valid for wanting things in the relationship. But I do want to give you a different perspective, I'm 41 now so ive lived a little but is there any way you can cut back on giving him money/support? As women we tend to want to be supportive in any and all ways and a lot of times that means sacrificing your own needs. Now that he's working, having a bit more independence would be better for your peace of mind. You already said he's great in every other regard so it doesn't seem like he'd have an issue. 

On the other hand, you really want to be treated with gifts or something sweet and out of the blue. But he's too poor to do that, or, he's too inexperienced to know what you want. As others have said, open up to him! Have that conversation because of thats how you two will grow and understand each other more. These guys aren't mind readers unfortunately haha so you'll have to show him what you mean and want.

Same. What is he still figuring out? It’s ok to have kids later in life because that’s how life turned out, but to date younger women so you can just push the decision forwards so you can … travel? Sleep in? That’s ridiculous.

Lmaooooooo this gotta be a joke right?

This guy has told on himself in a 100 different ways. He has been trying to tell you that he's not a good person, you don't deserve him and that he doesn't see the relationship heading towards the long run. Don't be surprised when he ends it because based on your description, that's where he's heading.

So not only does your boyfriend keep his ex close and even prioritize her over you in social situations, but he also chooses stays in the same social circle as the people who assaulted you by extension. I don't think this is a good situation for you, and I don't think this relationship will help you with what should be your absolute priority right now, ie to heal from what was done to you.

All I can say is buying a house was the best decision before marriage. I had equity untied to anyone. 

Second thing I'll say is, it's true that you marry into the family. He sounds controlled by her and I feel like this is just the beginning.

It feels like you're looking for reasons to find him untrustworthy. He could level the exact same accusations back at you. Put down your swords and talk it out.

Then it's over.  You don't want the same things.  He's not interested in actually committing to you.  He's not interested in making sure that you are safe and protected if you were to be the mother of his children.  He's not interested in making sure that if one of you is sick, you have rights.  If one of you were disabled and would lose state benefits by marrying then I could understand wanting to perform without the paper, but that isn't the case here.  If he thinks that marriage is only to be used as a weapon, he's as sharp as a polished cannonball.    
  
He wouldn't be himself if he made sure that he and his life partner can make important decisions?  He's happy to have the benefits of you as his wife without having to make sure you're safe.  I'd leave this at 1.5 years and wish him well so you can heal and go find your husband.  Why even bother to stay friends with him?  So you don't have to process the pain of it being a breakup? 

  
Someone else is going to be over the moon about marrying you.  They won't just be stoked to have you as a wife; they'll be thrilled to be your husband.

Your partner knows your boundaries and has did nothing but walk over them. I love my gf, and if one of my friends were even slightly rude I would pull them aside and have a serious discussion. Not go to their birthday party and exclude my partner. I’m not one to jump to cheating, but I think at the least he has some type of feelings for this girl.

Great job on your financial goals! Owning a home is a great way to grow wealth, as is investing in retirement accounts as early as possible. 

If you can swing it, consider purchasing a home without the BF, in your name only. It does not appear that he is ready to be your partner financially, because he is still listening to his mother instead of forming his own opinions.

In other words, don't let other people (including your BF) prevent you from achieving your goals.

If you’ve communicated for years, carried most of the work, and nothing changes, then you’re not fighting for a relationship, you’re fighting alone in it.

Own the past without defending it, stop any ex-related behavior completely, and rebuild trust through consistent actions over time, not constant reassurance.

I was not impaired until midway through the drive. Prior to that I felt normal.  I do take accountability for my part in the outcome for sure, never making these mistakes again.

No, with the girl that blocked me, it was just out of the blue. She broke up with me (tbh I wanted to break up with her too but again, too cowardly to do it). We went no contact for like a year, and then I messaged her asking for a bit more closure, and we exchanged a few messages. Then went silent for another year, then I messaged her asking about something that happened at a house party while we were together and she said she wanted to move on and blocked me. Honestly she wasn't that bad I'm just kind of bitter she talked shit about me to her friends even though she was lowkey kinda cheating on me lol. I caught her with another dude in the gym. In her defense it wasn't a real committed relationship.

Anyway, I digress.

Thanks for telling me the storage unit was the right move. For some irrational reason it seems like a slimy move but I know it's just to protect myself.

"Never underestimate what a mad B will do," yes 100% all my essentials are in the storage unit, or going in my bag when I fly to visit my dad. I'm just leaving my TV, sound system, books, and clothes I don't care about.

Thank you

Edit:  I think they removed your comment because you said the B-word, I just tried quoting it and it got removed
Never doing that location shit again lol. She doesn't have access to any of my finances or any of my accounts it's all separate.

What you’re feeling makes sense, but it’s important to separate a few things that are getting tangled together: trust, transparency, and compatibility with boundaries.

You’re not being stupid here, this isn’t just “vibes being off,” it’s a pattern of disrespect that’s been repeated in different forms, and it makes sense that it’s wearing you down.

It’s not a boundary if it controls how another person lives. You have rules.

Everyone is anonymous until you get to know them lol. But I 100% was not looking for a relationship using Reddit DMs, started totally platonic.

Why do you want him to see a doctor? A dentist I get, but if he’s not sick, why see a doctor?

thank you to the ppl who have given me feedback already, i really appreciate this and was very much in need of it. I will have a talk with my partner and hopefully figure this out.