=== SCOTUS Slip Opinion: 600us1r53_4g15 ===

PRELIMINARY PRINT

Volume 600 U. S. Part 1
Pages 181–411

OFFICIAL REPORTS
OF

THE SUPREME COURT
June 29, 2023

Page Proof Pending Publication

REBECCA A. WOMELDORF
reporter of decisions

NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before
the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter
of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors.
 OCTOBER TERM, 2022 181

Syllabus

STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v.
PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF
HARVARD COLLEGE
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for
the rst circuit
No. 20–1199. Argued October 31, 2022—Decided June 29, 2023*
Harvard College and the University of North Carolina (UNC) are two of
the oldest institutions of higher learning in the United States. Every
year, tens of thousands of students apply to each school; many fewer are
admitted. Both Harvard and UNC employ a highly selective admis-
sions process to make their decisions. Admission to each school can
depend on a student's grades, recommendation letters, or extracurricu-
lar involvement. It can also depend on their race. The question pre-
sented is whether the admissions systems used by Harvard College and
UNC are lawful under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
At Harvard, each application for admission is initially screened by a
Page Proof Pending Publication
“frst reader,” who assigns a numerical score in each of six categories:
academic, extracurricular, athletic, school support, personal, and overall.
For the “overall” category—a composite of the fve other ratings—a frst
reader can and does consider the applicant's race. Harvard's admissions
subcommittees then review all applications from a particular geographic
area. These regional subcommittees make recommendations to the full
admissions committee, and they take an applicant's race into account.
When the 40-member full admissions committee begins its deliberations,
it discusses the relative breakdown of applicants by race. The goal of
the process, according to Harvard's director of admissions, is ensuring
there is no “dramatic drop-off” in minority admissions from the prior
class. An applicant receiving a majority of the full committee's votes
is tentatively accepted for admission. At the end of this process, the
racial composition of the tentative applicant pool is disclosed to the com-
mittee. The last stage of Harvard's admissions process, called the
“lop,” winnows the list of tentatively admitted students to arrive at the
fnal class. Applicants that Harvard considers cutting at this stage are
placed on the “lop list,” which contains only four pieces of information:

*Together with No. 21–707, Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. Uni-
versity of North Carolina et al., on certiorari before judgment to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
182 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Syllabus

legacy status, recruited athlete status, fnancial aid eligibility, and race.
In the Harvard admissions process, “race is a determinative tip for” a
signifcant percentage “of all admitted African American and Hispanic
applicants.”
UNC has a similar admissions process. Every application is re-
viewed frst by an admissions offce reader, who assigns a numerical
rating to each of several categories. Readers are required to consider
the applicant's race as a factor in their review. Readers then make a
written recommendation on each assigned application, and they may
provide an applicant a substantial “plus” depending on the applicant's
race. At this stage, most recommendations are provisionally fnal. A
committee of experienced staff members then conducts a “school group
review” of every initial decision made by a reader and either approves
or rejects the recommendation. In making those decisions, the commit-
tee may consider the applicant's race.
Petitioner, Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA), is a nonproft orga-
nization whose stated purpose is “to defend human and civil rights se-
cured by law, including the right of individuals to equal protection under
the law.” SFFA fled separate lawsuits against Harvard and UNC, ar-
guing that their race-based admissions programs violate, respectively,

Page Proof Pending Publication
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. After separate bench trials, both ad-
missions programs were found permissible under the Equal Protection
Clause and this Court's precedents. In the Harvard case, the First Cir-
cuit affrmed, and this Court granted certiorari. In the UNC case, this
Court granted certiorari before judgment.
Held: Harvard's and UNC's admissions programs violate the Equal Protec-
tion Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 198–231.
(a) Because SFFA complies with the standing requirements for orga-
nizational plaintiffs articulated by this Court in Hunt v. Washington
State Apple Advertising Comm'n, 432 U. S. 333, SFFA's obligations
under Article III are satisfed, and this Court has jurisdiction to con-
sider the merits of SFFA's claims.
The Court rejects UNC's argument that SFFA lacks standing because
it is not a “genuine” membership organization. An organizational plain-
tiff can satisfy Article III jurisdiction in two ways, one of which is to
assert “standing solely as the representative of its members,” Warth v.
Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 511, an approach known as representational or
organizational standing. To invoke it, an organization must satisfy the
three-part test in Hunt. Respondents do not suggest that SFFA fails
Hunt's test for organizational standing. They argue instead that SFFA
cannot invoke organizational standing at all because SFFA was not a
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 183

Syllabus

genuine membership organization at the time it fled suit. Respondents
maintain that, under Hunt, a group qualifes as a genuine membership
organization only if it is controlled and funded by its members. In
Hunt, this Court determined that a state agency with no traditional
members could still qualify as a genuine membership organization in
substance because the agency represented the interests of individuals
and otherwise satisfed Hunt's three-part test for organizational stand-
ing. See 432 U. S., at 342. Hunt's “indicia of membership” analysis,
however, has no applicability here. As the courts below found, SFFA
is indisputably a voluntary membership organization with identifable
members who support its mission and whom SFFA represents in good
faith. SFFA is thus entitled to rely on the organizational standing doc-
trine as articulated in Hunt. Pp. 198–201.
(b) Proposed by Congress and ratifed by the States in the wake of
the Civil War, the Fourteenth Amendment provides that no State shall
“deny to any person . . . the equal protection of the laws.” Proponents
of the Equal Protection Clause described its “foundation[al] principle”
as “not permit[ing] any distinctions of law based on race or color.” Any
“law which operates upon one man,” they maintained, should “operate
equally upon all.” Accordingly, as this Court's early decisions inter-
preting the Equal Protection Clause explained, the Fourteenth Amend-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ment guaranteed “that the law in the States shall be the same for the
black as for the white; that all persons, whether colored or white, shall
stand equal before the laws of the States.”
Despite the early recognition of the broad sweep of the Equal Protec-
tion Clause, the Court—alongside the country—quickly failed to live up
to the Clause's core commitments. For almost a century after the Civil
War, state-mandated segregation was in many parts of the Nation a
regrettable norm. This Court played its own role in that ignoble his-
tory, allowing in Plessy v. Ferguson the separate but equal regime that
would come to deface much of America. 163 U. S. 537.
After Plessy, “American courts . . . labored with the doctrine [of sepa-
rate but equal] for over half a century.” Brown v. Board of Education,
347 U. S. 483, 491. Some cases in this period attempted to curtail the
perniciousness of the doctrine by emphasizing that it required States
to provide black students educational opportunities equal to—even if
formally separate from—those enjoyed by white students. See, e. g.,
Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada, 305 U. S. 337, 349–350. But the
inherent folly of that approach—of trying to derive equality from in-
equality—soon became apparent. As the Court subsequently recog-
nized, even racial distinctions that were argued to have no palpable
effect worked to subordinate the afficted students. See, e. g.,
McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Ed., 339 U. S. 637,
184 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Syllabus

640–642. By 1950, the inevitable truth of the Fourteenth Amendment
had thus begun to reemerge: Separate cannot be equal.
The culmination of this approach came fnally in Brown v. Board of
Education, 347 U. S. 483. There, the Court overturned the separate
but equal regime established in Plessy and began on the path of invali-
dating all de jure racial discrimination by the States and Federal Gov-
ernment. The conclusion reached by the Brown Court was unmistak-
ably clear: the right to a public education “must be made available to all
on equal terms.” 347 U. S., at 493. The Court reiterated that rule just
one year later, holding that “full compliance” with Brown required
schools to admit students “on a racially nondiscriminatory basis.”
Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U. S. 294, 300–301.
In the years that followed, Brown's “fundamental principle that racial
discrimination in public education is unconstitutional,” id., at 298,
reached other areas of life—for example, state and local laws requiring
segregation in busing, Gayle v. Browder, 352 U. S. 903 (per curiam);
racial segregation in the enjoyment of public beaches and bathhouses,
Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v. Dawson, 350 U. S. 877 (per cu-
riam); and antimiscegenation laws, Loving v. Virginia, 388 U. S. 1.
These decisions, and others like them, refect the “core purpose” of
the Equal Protection Clause: “do[ing] away with all governmentally
Page Proof Pending Publication
imposed discrimination based on race.” Palmore v. Sidoti, 466 U. S.
429, 432.
Eliminating racial discrimination means eliminating all of it. Accord-
ingly, the Court has held that the Equal Protection Clause applies “with-
out regard to any differences of race, of color, or of nationality”—it is
“universal in [its] application.” Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369.
For “[t]he guarantee of equal protection cannot mean one thing when
applied to one individual and something else when applied to a person
of another color.” Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 289–
290 (opinion of Powell, J.).
Any exceptions to the Equal Protection Clause's guarantee must sur-
vive a daunting two-step examination known as “strict scrutiny,” Ada-
rand Constructors, Inc. v. Peña, 515 U. S. 200, 227, which asks frst
whether the racial classifcation is used to “further compelling govern-
mental interests,” Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 306, 326, and second
whether the government's use of race is “narrowly tailored,” i. e., “nec-
essary,” to achieve that interest, Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin,
570 U. S. 297, 311–312. Acceptance of race-based state action is rare
for a reason: “[d]istinctions between citizens solely because of their an-
cestry are by their very nature odious to a free people whose institu-
tions are founded upon the doctrine of equality.” Rice v. Cayetano, 528
U. S. 495, 517. Pp. 201–208.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 185

Syllabus

(c) This Court frst considered whether a university may make race-
based admissions decisions in Bakke, 438 U. S. 265. In a deeply splin-
tered decision that produced six different opinions, Justice Powell's opin-
ion for himself alone would eventually come to “serv[e] as the touchstone
for constitutional analysis of race-conscious admissions policies.” Grut-
ter, 539 U. S., at 323. After rejecting three of the University's four
justifcations as not suffciently compelling, Justice Powell turned to its
last interest asserted to be compelling—obtaining the educational bene-
fts that fow from a racially diverse student body. Justice Powell found
that interest to be “a constitutionally permissible goal for an institution
of higher education,” which was entitled as a matter of academic free-
dom “to make its own judgments as to . . . the selection of its student
body.” 438 U. S., at 311–312. But a university's freedom was not un-
limited—“[r]acial and ethnic distinctions of any sort are inherently sus-
pect,” Justice Powell explained, and antipathy toward them was deeply
“rooted in our Nation's constitutional and demographic history.” Id., at
291. Accordingly, a university could not employ a two-track quota sys-
tem with a specifc number of seats reserved for individuals from a pre-
ferred ethnic group. Id., at 315. Neither still could a university use
race to foreclose an individual from all consideration. Id., at 318. Race

Page Proof Pending Publication
could only operate as “a `plus' in a particular applicant's fle,” and even
then it had to be weighed in a manner “fexible enough to consider all
pertinent elements of diversity in light of the particular qualifcations
of each applicant.” Id., at 317. Pp. 208–210.
(d) For years following Bakke, lower courts struggled to determine
whether Justice Powell's decision was “binding precedent.” Grutter,
539 U. S., at 325. Then, in Grutter v. Bollinger, the Court for the frst
time “endorse[d] Justice Powell's view that student body diversity is a
compelling state interest that can justify the use of race in university
admissions.” Ibid. The Grutter majority's analysis tracked Justice
Powell's in many respects, including its insistence on limits on how uni-
versities may consider race in their admissions programs. Those limits,
Grutter explained, were intended to guard against two dangers that all
race-based government action portends. The frst is the risk that the
use of race will devolve into “illegitimate . . . stereotyp[ing].” Rich-
mond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469, 493 (plurality opinion). Admis-
sions programs could thus not operate on the “belief that minority stu-
dents always (or even consistently) express some characteristic minority
viewpoint on any issue.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 333 (internal quotation
marks omitted). The second risk is that race would be used not as a
plus, but as a negative—to discriminate against those racial groups that
were not the benefciaries of the race-based preference. A university's
186 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Syllabus

use of race, accordingly, could not occur in a manner that “unduly
harm[ed] nonminority applicants.” Id., at 341.
To manage these concerns, Grutter imposed one fnal limit on race-
based admissions programs: At some point, the Court held, they must
end. Id., at 342. Recognizing that “[e]nshrining a permanent justif-
cation for racial preferences would offend” the Constitution's unambigu-
ous guarantee of equal protection, the Court expressed its expectation
that, in 25 years, “the use of racial preferences will no longer be neces-
sary to further the interest approved today.” Id., at 343. Pp. 211–213.
(e) Twenty years have passed since Grutter, with no end to race-based
college admissions in sight. But the Court has permitted race-based
college admissions only within the confnes of narrow restrictions: such
admissions programs must comply with strict scrutiny, may never use
race as a stereotype or negative, and must—at some point—end. Re-
spondents' admissions systems fail each of these criteria and must there-
fore be invalidated under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 213–225.
(1) Respondents fail to operate their race-based admissions pro-
grams in a manner that is “suffciently measurable to permit judicial
[review]” under the rubric of strict scrutiny. Fisher v. University of
Tex. at Austin, 579 U. S. 365, 381. First, the interests that respondents
Page Proof Pending Publication
view as compelling cannot be subjected to meaningful judicial review.
Those interests include training future leaders, acquiring new knowl-
edge based on diverse outlooks, promoting a robust marketplace of
ideas, and preparing engaged and productive citizens. While these are
commendable goals, they are not suffciently coherent for purposes of
strict scrutiny. It is unclear how courts are supposed to measure any
of these goals, or if they could, to know when they have been reached
so that racial preferences can end. The elusiveness of respondents' as-
serted goals is further illustrated by comparing them to recognized com-
pelling interests. For example, courts can discern whether the tempo-
rary racial segregation of inmates will prevent harm to those in the
prison, see Johnson v. California, 543 U. S. 499, 512–513, but the ques-
tion whether a particular mix of minority students produces “engaged
and productive citizens” or effectively “ train[s] future leaders” is
standardless.
Second, respondents' admissions programs fail to articulate a mean-
ingful connection between the means they employ and the goals they
pursue. To achieve the educational benefts of diversity, respondents
measure the racial composition of their classes using racial categories
that are plainly overbroad (expressing, for example, no concern whether
South Asian or East Asian students are adequately represented as
“Asian”); arbitrary or undefned (the use of the category “Hispanic”); or
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 187

Syllabus

underinclusive (no category at all for Middle Eastern students). The
unclear connection between the goals that respondents seek and the
means they employ preclude courts from meaningfully scrutinizing re-
spondents' admissions programs.
The universities' main response to these criticisms is “trust us.”
They assert that universities are owed deference when using race to
beneft some applicants but not others. While this Court has recog-
nized a “tradition of giving a degree of deference to a university's aca-
demic decisions,” it has made clear that deference must exist “within
constitutionally prescribed limits.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 328. Re-
spondents have failed to present an exceedingly persuasive justifcation
for separating students on the basis of race that is measurable and con-
crete enough to permit judicial review, as the Equal Protection Clause
requires. Pp. 214–218.
(2) Respondents' race-based admissions systems also fail to comply
with the Equal Protection Clause's twin commands that race may never
be used as a “negative” and that it may not operate as a stereotype.
The First Circuit found that Harvard's consideration of race has resulted
in fewer admissions of Asian-American students. Respondents' asser-
tion that race is never a negative factor in their admissions programs
cannot withstand scrutiny. College admissions are zero-sum, and a
Page Proof Pending Publication
beneft provided to some applicants but not to others necessarily advan-
tages the former at the expense of the latter.
Respondents' admissions programs are infrm for a second reason as
well: They require stereotyping—the very thing Grutter foreswore.
When a university admits students “on the basis of race, it engages in
the offensive and demeaning assumption that [students] of a particular
race, because of their race, think alike.” Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S.
900, 911–912. Such stereotyping is contrary to the “core purpose” of
the Equal Protection Clause. Palmore, 466 U. S., at 432. Pp. 218–221.
(3) Respondents' admissions programs also lack a “logical end
point” as Grutter required. 539 U. S., at 342. Respondents suggest
that the end of race-based admissions programs will occur once mean-
ingful representation and diversity are achieved on college campuses.
Such measures of success amount to little more than comparing the ra-
cial breakdown of the incoming class and comparing it to some other
metric, such as the racial makeup of the previous incoming class or the
population in general, to see whether some proportional goal has been
reached. The problem with this approach is well established: “[O]ut-
right racial balancing” is “patently unconstitutional.” Fisher, 570 U. S.,
at 311. Respondents' second proffered end point—when students re-
ceive the educational benefts of diversity—fares no better. As ex-
plained, it is unclear how a court is supposed to determine if or when
188 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Syllabus

such goals would be adequately met. Third, respondents suggest the
25-year expectation in Grutter means that race-based preferences must
be allowed to continue until at least 2028. The Court's statement in
Grutter, however, refected only that Court's expectation that race-
based preferences would, by 2028, be unnecessary in the context of ra-
cial diversity on college campuses. Finally, respondents argue that the
frequent reviews they conduct to determine whether racial preferences
are still necessary obviates the need for an end point. But Grutter
never suggested that periodic review can make unconstitutional conduct
constitutional. Pp. 221–225.
(f) Because Harvard's and UNC's admissions programs lack suff-
ciently focused and measurable objectives warranting the use of race,
unavoidably employ race in a negative manner, involve racial stereotyp-
ing, and lack meaningful end points, those admissions programs cannot
be reconciled with the guarantees of the Equal Protection Clause. At
the same time, nothing prohibits universities from considering an appli-
cant's discussion of how race affected the applicant's life, so long as that
discussion is concretely tied to a quality of character or unique ability
that the particular applicant can contribute to the university. Many
universities have for too long wrongly concluded that the touchstone of
an individual's identity is not challenges bested, skills built, or lessons
Page Proof Pending Publication
learned, but the color of their skin. This Nation's constitutional history
does not tolerate that choice. Pp. 230–231.
No. 20–1199, 980 F. 3d 157; No. 21–707, 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, reversed.

Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Thomas,
Alito, Gorsuch, Kavanaugh, and Barrett, JJ., joined. Thomas, J.,
fled a concurring opinion, post, p. 231. Gorsuch, J., fled a concurring
opinion, in which Thomas, J., joined, post, p. 287. Kavanaugh, J., fled a
concurring opinion, post, p. 311. Sotomayor, J., fled a dissenting opinion,
in which Kagan, J., joined, and in which Jackson, J., joined as it applies
to No. 21–707, post, p. 318. Jackson, J., fled a dissenting opinion in
No. 21–707, in which Sotomayor and Kagan, JJ., joined, post, p. 384.
Jackson, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case in
No. 20–1199.

Cameron T. Norris argued the cause for petitioner in No.
20–1199. With him on the briefs were William S. Conso-
voy, Thomas R. McCarthy, J. Michael Connolly, Bryan
Weir, James F. Hasson, Adam K. Mortara, Patrick Straw-
bridge, and Alan M. Ruley. Mr. Strawbridge argued the
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 189

Counsel

cause for petitioner in No. 21–707. With him on the briefs
were Messrs. Consovoy, McCarthy, Connolly, Norris, Weir,
Hasson, Mortara, and Ruley.
Seth P. Waxman argued the cause for respondent in No.
20–1199. With him on the briefs were Catherine M. A. Car-
roll, Claire H. Chung, Debo P. Adegbile, Rishita Apsani,
William F. Lee, Felicia H. Ellsworth, Hannah E. Gelbort,
Diane E. Lopez, and Ara B. Gershengorn. Ryan Y. Park,
Solicitor General of North Carolina, argued the cause for uni-
versity respondents in No. 21–707. With him on the brief
were Joshua H. Stein, Attorney General of North Carolina,
Nicholas S. Brod, Sarah G. Boyce, and James W. Doggett,
Deputy Solicitors General, Sripriya Narasimhan, Deputy
General Counsel, Stephanie A. Brennan and Tamika L. Hen-
derson, Special Deputy Attorneys General, Patrick Fitzger-
ald, Amy Van Gelder, and Lara Flath. David G. Hinojosa
argued the cause for student respondents Cecilia Polanco
et al. in No. 21–707. With him on the brief were Damon T.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Hewitt, Jon Greenbaum, Reed N. Colfax, Soohyun Choi, and
Gemma Donofrio.
Solicitor General Prelogar argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging affrmance in both cases.
With her on the brief were Acting Principal Deputy Assist-
ant Attorney General Smith, Deputy Solicitor General Flet-
cher, Masha G. Hansford, Nicolas Y. Riley, Elizabeth Parr
Hecker, Jonathan E. Meyer, and Samuel R. Bagenstos.*

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in both cases were fled for the
State of Oklahoma et al. by John O'Connor, Attorney General of Okla-
homa, and Mithun Mansinghani, Solicitor General, and by the Attorneys
General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Steve Marshall of
Alabama, Mark Brnovich of Arizona, Leslie Rutledge of Arkansas, Ashley
Moody of Florida, Chris Carr of Georgia, Derek Schmidt of Kansas, Daniel
Cameron of Kentucky, Jeff Landry of Louisiana, Lynn Fitch of Mississippi,
Eric Schmitt of Missouri, Austin Knudsen of Montana, Doug Peterson of
Nebraska, Drew H. Wrigley of North Dakota, Dave Yost of Ohio, Alan
Wilson of South Carolina, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Jason S. Miyares of
190 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In these cases we consider whether the admissions sys-
tems used by Harvard College and the University of North

Virginia, and Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia; for the State of Texas
by Ken Paxton, Attorney General of Texas, Judd E. Stone II, Solicitor
General, Lanora C. Pettit, Principal Deputy Solicitor General, Rance
Craft, Assistant Solicitor General, and Brent Webster, First Assistant At-
torney General; for the American Center for Law and Justice et al. by Jay
Alan Sekulow, Stuart J. Roth, Jordan A. Sekulow, Colby M. May, and
Walter M. Weber; for the Californians for Equal Rights Foundation by
Daniel I. Morenoff; for the Defense of Freedom Institute for Policy Stud-
ies by John C. Sullivan; for Economists by C. Boyden Gray, R. Trent
McCotter, and Jonathan Berry; for the Hamilton Lincoln Law Institute
et al. by Theodore H. Frank, Anna St. John, and Ilya Shapiro, pro se; for
the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law et al. by
Jonathan A. Vogel; for the National Association of Scholars by Dennis J.
Saffran; for the Pacifc Legal Foundation et al. by Joshua P. Thompson,
Anastasia P. Boden, Wencong Fa, and Alison Somin; for Project 21 by
Page Proof Pending Publication
David H. Thompson, Peter A. Patterson, John D. Ohlendorf, and Megan
M. Wold; for United States Senators et al. by R. Shawn Gunnarson;
and for Mark Keith Robinson et al. by Thomas Brejcha and B. Tyler
Brooks. A brief of amicus curiae urging vacatur in both cases was fled
for F. Andrew Hessick by Richard A. Simpson and Mr. Hessick, pro se.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in No. 20–1199 were fled for
the America First Legal Foundation by Jonathan F. Mitchell and Gene
P. Hamilton; and for the for the Foundation Against Intolerance & Racism
by Mary E. Keane. A brief of amici curiae urging vacatur was fled for
Fiona A. Harrison by Alan B. Morrison in No. 20–1199.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in both cases were fled for the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts et al. by Maura Healey, Attorney Gen-
eral of Massachusetts, Elizabeth N. Dewar, State Solicitor, and Ann E.
Lynch and David Ureña, Assistant Attorneys General, by Karl A. Racine,
Attorney General of the District of Columbia, by Matthew J. Platkin, Act-
ing Attorney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for
their respective States as follows: Rob Bonta of California, Philip J.
Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jennings of
Delaware, Holly T. Shikada of Hawaii, Kwame Raoul of Illinois, Aaron
M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Keith Ellison of Minne-
sota, Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Letitia
James of New York, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Josh Shapiro of Penn-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 191

Opinion of the Court

Carolina, two of the oldest institutions of higher learning in
the United States, are lawful under the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

sylvania, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, Robert W. Ferguson of Wash-
ington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for Admissions and Testing Pro-
fessionals by Daniel D. Doyle; for the American Bar Association by
Reginald M. Turner, Jr., Loretta Lynch, Sidney Rosdeitcher, Jaren Jan-
ghorbani, Jennifer H. Wu, Josephine Young, and Johan E. Tatoy; for the
American Civil Liberties Union et al. by Sarah Hinger, Jennesa Calvo-
Friedman, ReNika Moore, David D. Cole, Matthew R. Segal, and Kristi
L. Graunke; for the American Council on Education et al. by Jessica L.
Ellsworth, Madelyn F. Wessel, and Johannah Walker; for the American
Educational Research Association et al. by Angelo N. Ancheta; for the
American Federation of Teachers by Kevin K. Russell, Rhonda Weingar-
ten, and David J. Strom; for the American G. I. Forum et al. by Elizabeth
A. Ritvo, Joshua P. Dunn, Lourdes M. Rosado, and Francisca Fajana; for
the American Psychological Association et al. by Melissa Arbus Sherry,
Deanne M. Ottaviano, and Nathalie Gilfoyle; for Amherst College et al.
by Mark D. Harris and John E. Roberts; for Applied Materials, Inc., et al.
Page Proof Pending Publication
by Mark S. Davies, Thomas M. Bondy, Katherine M. Kopp, E. Joshua
Rosenkranz, and Darren S. Teshima; for the Asian American Legal De-
fense and Education Fund et al. by Dean Richlin, Madeleine K. Rodri-
guez, and Bethany Li; for Asian Americans Advancing Justice et al. by
Roberto A. Rivera-Soto, Michael R. McDonald, Niyati Shah, Eri Andri-
ola, Winifred Kao, and Laboni Hoq; for the Association of American Medi-
cal Colleges et al. by Jonathan S. Franklin, Peter B. Siegal, Heather J.
Alarcon, and Frank R. Trinity; for Black Women Law Scholars by Ray-
mond P. Tolentino and Joshua Matz; for Brown University et al. by Mat-
thew S. Hellman, Ishan K. Bhabha, and Lauren J. Hartz; for the Constitu-
tional Accountability Center by Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod,
and David H. Gans; for the Council of the Great City Schools by John W.
Borkowski, Aleksandra O. Rushing, and Julie Wright Halbert; for Deans
of U. S. Law Schools by David B. Oppenheimer; for Faith Organizations
by Corrine Irish and Keith Bradley; for Georgetown University et al. by
Crystal Nix-Hines, Kathleen M. Sullivan, and Justin T. Reinheimer; for
HBCU Leaders et al. by Laurel Pyke Malson and Amanda Shafer Ber-
man; for the HR Policy Association by G. Roger King and Jacquelyn L.
Thompson; for the Law Firm Antiracism Alliance by Stephen R. McAllis-
ter and Simon A. Steel; for Legal Scholars Defending Race-Conscious Ad-
missions by Vinay Harpalani; for Major American Business Enterprises
by Michael R. Dreeben, Heather Welles, Melissa C. Cassel, and Ruthanne
192 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

I
A
Founded in 1636, Harvard College has one of the most se-
lective application processes in the country. Over 60,000

M. Deutsch; for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology et al. by Doug-
las Hallward-Driemeier, Debra L. Zumwalt, and Dahlia Fetouh; for the
Multicultural Media, Telecom and Internet Council, Inc., et al. by Emily
Kanstroom Musgrave, Susan Finegan, and Tara M. Corvo; for the Na-
tional Academy of Education by Yelena Konanova, Caitlin J. Halligan,
and Amy I. Berman; for the National Asian Pacifc American Bar Associa-
tion et al. by Daniel H. Bromberg, Albert Giang, Rachana Pathak, and
Navdeep Singh; for the National Association of Basketball Coaches et al.
by Jaime A. Santos; for the National Black Law Students Association by
Deborah N. Archer and Vincent M. Southerland; for the National Educa-
tion Association et al. by Alice O'Brien, Jason Walta, and Nicole G.
Berner; for the National School Boards Association et al. by Pratik A.
Shah, Aileen M. McGrath, Francisco M. Negrón, Jr., and Sonja H.
Trainor; for the National Women's Law Center et al. by Richard C. Smith,
Page Proof Pending Publication
Meredith Riley, Patrick Ashby, Menaka Nayar, Fatima Goss Graves,
Emily Martin, and Sunu P. Chandy; for the President of the University
of California et al. by Ginger D. Anders, Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., Charles
F. Robinson, and Allison M. Day; for Professors of History and Law by
Kathleen Hartnett, Adam S. Gershenson, and Kristen A. Johnson; for
Southern Governors by Charles L. McCloud and Matthew J. Greer; for
United States Senators et al. by Robert A. Long, Jr., and Eric Chung; for
the University of Michigan by John P. Elwood, Stephen K. Wirth, and
Timothy G. Lynch; for the Washington Bar Association et al. by Upnit K.
Bhatti, Max Carter-Oberstone, and Daniel A. Rubens; for Youth Advo-
cates et al. by Kelly M. Dermody and Miriam Rollin; for Charles S. Abbot
et al. by Michael M. Purpura, Joe R. Reeder, Robert P. Charrow, and
Elliot H. Scherker; for Deborah Cohen et al. by Mark A. Packman; for
Robert C. “Bobby” Scott et al. by Brigida Benitez and Christopher A.
Suarez; and for 25 Diverse, California-Focused Bar Associations et al. by
Mark R. Yohalem and Eva Paterson.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in No. 20–1199 were fled for
the Anti-Defamation League by Samuel P. Groner and Steven M. Free-
man; for Professors of Economics by Derek T. Ho, Bradley E. Oppenhei-
mer, and Minsuk Han; for Students of Harvard College et al. by Elisabeth
S. Theodore, John A. Freedman, Nancy L. Perkins, Sally L. Pei, Damon
Hewitt, Jon Greenbaum, David G. Hinojosa, and Mses. Shah and Andri-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 193

Opinion of the Court

people applied to the school last year; fewer than 2,000 were
admitted. Gaining admission to Harvard is thus no easy
feat. It can depend on having excellent grades, glowing rec-
ommendation letters, or overcoming signifcant adversity.

ola; for 25 Harvard Student Organizations et al. by Jin Hee Lee, Mi-
chaele N. Turnage Young, Jennifer A. Holmes, Janai S. Nelson, Samuel
Spital, Rachel M. Kleinman, and Cara McClellan; and for 1,241 Social
Scientists et al. by Daniel Woofter, Erica Oleszczuk Evans, and Liliana
M. Garces.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in No. 21–707 were fled for the
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., et al. by Ms. Nelson,
Mr. Spital, Alexsis M. Johnson, Mr. Lee, and Amber M. Koonce; and for
1,246 American Social Science Researchers et al. by Caroline E. Reynolds,
David A. Reiser, and William J. Murphy.
Briefs of amici curiae were fled in both cases for the American Associa-
tion for Access, Equity and Diversity et al. by Marilynn L. Schuyler; for
the Asian American Coalition for Education et al. by Gordon M. Fauth,
Jr.; for the Claremont Institute's Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence
by John C. Eastman and Anthony T. Caso; for the College Board et al. by
Page Proof Pending Publication
Michael A. Brown, Timothy P. Harkness, David Y. Livshiz, and Scott A.
Eisman; for Empirical Scholars by Susan Baker Manning; for Former
Federal Offcials of the U. S. Dept. of Education's Offce for Civil Rights
by William E. Trachman; for Freedom X by Mitchell Keiter and William
J. Becker, Jr.; for Human Rights Advocates et al. by Constance de la Vega
and Neil A. F. Popović; for Individual Scientists by Ashley Lee Hogewood
III, David R. Fine, and Andrew C. Glass; for Judicial Watch, Inc., et al.
by H. Christopher Coates; for the Legal Insurrection Foundation by Wil-
liam A. Jacobson; for the Liberty Justice Center et al. by Daniel R. Suhr;
for the LONANG Institute by Kerry Lee Morgan and Randall A. Pen-
tiuk; for Parents Defending Education by Christopher E. Mills; for Speech
First by Bradley A. Benbrook and Stephen M. Duvernay; for Veterans for
Fairness by Gene C. Schaerr, Erik S. Jaffe, H. Christopher Bartolomucci,
Hannah C. Smith, Kathryn E. Tarbert, and Claude M. McQuarrie III; for
David E. Bernstein by Cory R. Liu; for David Boyle by Mr. Boyle, pro se;
for Gail Heriot et al. by Peter N. Kirsanow and Ms. Heriot, both pro se;
for Ann M. Killenbeck et al. by Stuart Taylor, Jr.; for Former Attorney
General Edwin Meese III by Edward M. Wenger; and for Richard Sander
by Mr. Taylor. Briefs of amici curiae were fled in No. 20–1199 for the
Jewish Coalition for Religious Liberty by Kristen K. Waggoner, John J.
Bursch, David A. Cortman, and Erin Morrow Hawley; and for the South-
eastern Legal Foundation by Kimberly S. Hermann.
194 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

See 980 F. 3d 157, 166–169 (CA1 2020). It can also depend
on your race.
The admissions process at Harvard works as follows.
Every application is initially screened by a “frst reader,”
who assigns scores in six categories: academic, extracurricu-
lar, athletic, school support, personal, and overall. Ibid. A
rating of “1” is the best; a rating of “6” the worst. Ibid.
In the academic category, for example, a “1” signifes “near-
perfect standardized test scores and grades”; in the extra-
curricular category, it indicates “truly unusual achievement”;
and in the personal category, it denotes “outstanding” attrib-
utes like maturity, integrity, leadership, kindness, and cour-
age. Id., at 167–168. A score of “1” on the overall rating—
a composite of the fve other ratings—“signifes an excep-
tional candidate with >90% chance of admission.” Id., at 169
(internal quotation marks omitted). In assigning the over-
all rating, the frst readers “can and do take an applicant's
Page Proof Pending Publication
race into account.” Ibid.
Once the frst read process is complete, Harvard convenes
admissions subcommittees. Ibid. Each subcommittee
meets for three to fve days and evaluates all applicants from
a particular geographic area. Ibid. The subcommittees
are responsible for making recommendations to the full ad-
missions committee. Id., at 169–170. The subcommittees
can and do take an applicant's race into account when making
their recommendations. Id., at 170.
The next step of the Harvard process is the full committee
meeting. The committee has 40 members, and its discussion
centers around the applicants who have been recommended
by the regional subcommittees. Ibid. At the beginning of
the meeting, the committee discusses the relative breakdown
of applicants by race. The “goal,” according to Harvard's
director of admissions, “is to make sure that [Harvard does]
not hav[e] a dramatic drop-off” in minority admissions from
the prior class. 2 App. in No. 20–1199, pp. 744, 747–748.
Each applicant considered by the full committee is discussed
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 195

Opinion of the Court

one by one, and every member of the committee must vote
on admission. 980 F. 3d, at 170. Only when an applicant
secures a majority of the full committee's votes is he or she
tentatively accepted for admission. Ibid. At the end of the
full committee meeting, the racial composition of the pool of
tentatively admitted students is disclosed to the committee.
Ibid.; 2 App. in No. 20–1199, at 861.
The fnal stage of Harvard's process is called the “lop,”
during which the list of tentatively admitted students is win-
nowed further to arrive at the fnal class. Any applicants
that Harvard considers cutting at this stage are placed on a
“lop list,” which contains only four pieces of information: leg-
acy status, recruited athlete status, fnancial aid eligibility,
and race. 980 F. 3d, at 170. The full committee decides as
a group which students to lop. 397 F. Supp. 3d 126, 144
(Mass. 2019). In doing so, the committee can and does take
race into account. Ibid. Once the lop process is complete,
Harvard's admitted class is set. Ibid. In the Harvard ad-
Page Proof Pending Publication
missions process, “race is a determinative tip for” a signif-
cant percentage “of all admitted African American and His-
panic applicants.” Id., at 178.

B
Founded just nine months after the Constitution was rati-
fed, the University of North Carolina (UNC) prides itself on
being the “nation's frst public university.” 567 F. Supp. 3d
580, 588 (MDNC 2021). Like Harvard, UNC's “admissions
process is highly selective”: In a typical year, the school “re-
ceives approximately 43,500 applications for its freshman
class of 4,200.” Id., at 595.
Every application the University receives is initially re-
viewed by one of approximately 40 admissions offce readers,
each of whom reviews roughly fve applications per hour.
Id., at 596, 598. Readers are required to consider “[r]ace
and ethnicity . . . as one factor” in their review. Id., at 597
(internal quotation marks omitted). Other factors include
196 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

academic performance and rigor, standardized testing re-
sults, extracurricular involvement, essay quality, personal
factors, and student background. Id., at 600. Readers
are responsible for providing numerical ratings for the aca-
demic, extracurricular, personal, and essay categories. Ibid.
During the years at issue in this litigation, underrepre-
sented minority students were “more likely to score [highly]
on their personal ratings than their white and Asian
American peers,” but were more likely to be “rated lower by
UNC readers on their academic program, academic perform-
ance, . . . extracurricular activities,” and essays. Id., at
616–617.
After assessing an applicant's materials along these lines,
the reader “formulates an opinion about whether the student
should be offered admission” and then “writes a comment
defending his or her recommended decision.” Id., at 598 (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted). In making that decision,
Page Proof Pending Publication
readers may offer students a “plus” based on their race,
which “may be signifcant in an individual case.” Id., at 601
(internal quotation marks omitted). The admissions deci-
sions made by the frst readers are, in most cases, “provision-
ally fnal.” Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. Uni-
versity of N. C. at Chapel Hill, No. 1:14–cv–954 (MDNC,
Nov. 9, 2020), ECF Doc. 225, p. 7, ¶52.
Following the frst read process, “applications then go to a
process called `school group review' . . . where a committee
composed of experienced staff members reviews every [ini-
tial] decision.” 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 599. The review com-
mittee receives a report on each student which contains,
among other things, their “class rank, GPA, and test scores;
the ratings assigned to them by their initial readers; and
their status as residents, legacies, or special recruits.” Ibid.
(footnote omitted). The review committee either approves
or rejects each admission recommendation made by the frst
reader, after which the admissions decisions are fnalized.
Ibid. In making those decisions, the review committee may
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 197

Opinion of the Court

also consider the applicant's race. Id., at 607; 2 App. in
No. 21–707, p. 407.1
C
Petitioner, Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA), is a non-
proft organization founded in 2014 whose purpose is “to de-
fend human and civil rights secured by law, including the
right of individuals to equal protection under the law.” 980
F. 3d, at 164 (internal quotation marks omitted). In Novem-
ber 2014, SFFA fled separate lawsuits against Harvard Col-
lege and the University of North Carolina, arguing that their

1
Justice Jackson attempts to minimize the role that race plays in
UNC's admissions process by noting that, from 2016–2021, the school ac-
cepted a lower “percentage of the most academically excellent in-state
Black candidates”—that is, 65 out of 67 such applicants (97.01%)—than it
did similarly situated Asian applicants—that is, 1118 out of 1139 such ap-
plicants (98.16%). Post, at 402 (dissenting opinion); see also 3 App. in No.
21–707, pp. 1078–1080. It is not clear how the rejection of just two black
Page Proof Pending Publication
applicants over fve years could be “indicative of a genuinely holistic [ad-
missions] process,” as Justice Jackson contends. Post, at 403. And in-
deed it cannot be, as the overall acceptance rates of academically excellent
applicants to UNC illustrates full well. According to SFFA's expert, over
80% of all black applicants in the top academic decile were admitted to
UNC, while under 70% of white and Asian applicants in that decile were
admitted. 3 App. in No. 21–707, at 1078–1083. In the second highest
academic decile, the disparity is even starker: 83% of black applicants were
admitted, while 58% of white applicants and 47% of Asian applicants were
admitted. Ibid. And in the third highest decile, 77% of black applicants
were admitted, compared to 48% of white applicants and 34% of Asian
applicants. Ibid. The dissent does not dispute the accuracy of these
fgures. See post, at 402–403, n. 94 (opinion of Jackson, J). And its con-
tention that white and Asian students “receive a diversity plus” in UNC's
race-based admissions system blinks reality. Post, at 400.
The same is true at Harvard. See Brief for Petitioner 24 (“[A]n African
American [student] in [the fourth lowest academic] decile has a higher
chance of admission (12.8%) than an Asian American in the top decile
(12.7%).” (emphasis added)); see also 4 App. in No. 20–1199, p. 1793 (black
applicants in the top four academic deciles are between four and ten times
more likely to be admitted to Harvard than Asian applicants in those
deciles).
198 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

race-based admissions programs violated, respectively, Title
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 252, 42 U. S. C.
§ 2000d et seq., and the Equal Protection Clause of the Four-
teenth Amendment.2 See 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 131–132; 567
F. Supp. 3d, at 585–586. The District Courts in both cases
held bench trials to evaluate SFFA's claims. See 980 F. 3d,
at 179; 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 588. Trial in the Harvard case
lasted 15 days and included testimony from 30 witnesses,
after which the Court concluded that Harvard's admissions
program comported with our precedents on the use of race
in college admissions. See 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 132, 183. The
First Circuit affrmed that determination. See 980 F. 3d, at
204. Similarly, in the UNC case, the District Court con-
cluded after an eight-day trial that UNC's admissions pro-
gram was permissible under the Equal Protection Clause.
567 F. Supp. 3d, at 588, 666.
We granted certiorari in the Harvard case and certiorari
before judgment in the UNC case. 595 U. S. ––– (2022).
Page Proof Pending Publication
II
Before turning to the merits, we must assure ourselves of
our jurisdiction. See Summers v. Earth Island Institute,
555 U. S. 488, 499 (2009). UNC argues that SFFA lacks
standing to bring its claims because it is not a “genuine”
membership organization. Brief for University Respond-
ents in No. 21–707, pp. 23–26. Every court to have consid-
2
Title VI provides that “[n]o person in the United States shall, on the
ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in,
be denied the benefts of, or be subjected to discrimination under any
program or activity receiving Federal fnancial assistance.” 42 U. S. C.
§ 2000d. “We have explained that discrimination that violates the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment committed by an institu-
tion that accepts federal funds also constitutes a violation of Title VI.”
Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 244, 276, n. 23 (2003). Although Justice
Gorsuch questions that proposition, no party asks us to reconsider it.
We accordingly evaluate Harvard's admissions program under the stand-
ards of the Equal Protection Clause itself.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 199

Opinion of the Court

ered this argument has rejected it, and so do we. See Stu-
dents for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. University of Tex. at
Austin, 37 F. 4th 1078, 1084–1086, and n. 8 (CA5 2022) (col-
lecting cases).
Article III of the Constitution limits “[t]he judicial power
of the United States” to “cases” or “controversies,” ensuring
that federal courts act only “as a necessity in the determina-
tion of real, earnest and vital” disputes. Muskrat v. United
States, 219 U. S. 346, 351, 359 (1911) (internal quotation
marks omitted). “To state a case or controversy under Arti-
cle III, a plaintiff must establish standing.” Arizona Chris-
tian School Tuition Organization v. Winn, 563 U. S. 125, 133
(2011). That, in turn, requires a plaintiff to demonstrate
that it has “(1) suffered an injury in fact, (2) that is fairly
traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3)
that is likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision.”
Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U. S. 330, 338 (2016).
Page Proof Pending Publication
In cases like these, where the plaintiff is an organization,
the standing requirements of Article III can be satisfed in
two ways. Either the organization can claim that it suffered
an injury in its own right or, alternatively, it can assert
“standing solely as the representative of its members.”
Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 511 (1975). The latter ap-
proach is known as representational or organizational stand-
ing. Ibid.; Summers, 555 U. S., at 497–498. To invoke it, an
organization must demonstrate that “(a) its members would
otherwise have standing to sue in their own right; (b) the
interests it seeks to protect are germane to the organiza-
tion's purpose; and (c) neither the claim asserted nor the re-
lief requested requires the participation of individual mem-
bers in the lawsuit.” Hunt v. Washington State Apple
Advertising Comm'n, 432 U. S. 333, 343 (1977).
Respondents do not contest that SFFA satisfes the three-
part test for organizational standing articulated in Hunt, and
like the courts below, we fnd no basis in the record to con-
clude otherwise. See 980 F. 3d, at 182–184; 397 F. Supp. 3d,
200 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

at 183–184; No. 1:14–cv–954 (MDNC, Sept. 29, 2018), App. D
to Pet. for Cert. in No. 21–707, pp. 237–245 (2018 DC Opin-
ion). Respondents instead argue that SFFA was not a “gen-
uine `membership organization' ” when it fled suit, and thus
that it could not invoke the doctrine of organizational stand-
ing in the frst place. Brief for University Respondents in
No. 21–707, at 24. According to respondents, our decision in
Hunt established that groups qualify as genuine membership
organizations only if they are controlled and funded by their
members. And because SFFA's members did neither at the
time this litigation commenced, respondents' argument goes,
SFFA could not represent its members for purposes of Arti-
cle III standing. Brief for University Respondents in No.
21–707, at 24 (citing Hunt, 432 U. S., at 343).
Hunt involved the Washington State Apple Advertising
Commission, a state agency whose purpose was to protect
the local apple industry. The Commission brought suit chal-
Page Proof Pending Publication
lenging a North Carolina statute that imposed a labeling re-
quirement on containers of apples sold in that State. The
Commission argued that it had standing to challenge the re-
quirement on behalf of Washington's apple industry. See
id., at 336–341. We recognized, however, that as a state
agency, “the Commission [wa]s not a traditional voluntary
membership organization . . . , for it ha[d] no members at
all.” Id., at 342. As a result, we could not easily apply the
three-part test for organizational standing, which asks
whether an organization's members have standing. We nev-
ertheless concluded that the Commission had standing be-
cause the apple growers and dealers it represented were ef-
fectively members of the Commission. Id., at 344. The
growers and dealers “alone elect[ed] the members of the
Commission,” “alone . . . serve[d] on the Commission,” and
“alone fnance[d] its activities”—they possessed, in other
words, “all of the indicia of membership.” Ibid. The Com-
mission was therefore a genuine membership organization in
substance, if not in form. And it was “clearly” entitled to
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 201

Opinion of the Court

rely on the doctrine of organizational standing under the
three-part test recounted above. Id., at 343.
The indicia of membership analysis employed in Hunt has
no applicability in these cases. Here, SFFA is indisputably
a voluntary membership organization with identifable mem-
bers—it is not, as in Hunt, a state agency that concededly
has no members. See 2018 DC Opinion 241–242. As the
First Circuit in the Harvard litigation observed, at the time
SFFA fled suit, it was “a validly incorporated 501(c)(3) non-
proft with forty-seven members who joined voluntarily to
support its mission.” 980 F. 3d, at 184. Meanwhile in the
UNC litigation, SFFA represented four members in particu-
lar—high school graduates who were denied admission to
UNC. See 2018 DC Opinion 234. Those members fled dec-
larations with the District Court stating “that they have vol-
untarily joined SFFA; they support its mission; they receive
updates about the status of the case from SFFA's President;
and they have had the opportunity to have input and direc-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tion on SFFA's case.” Id., at 234–235 (internal quotation
marks omitted). Where, as here, an organization has identi-
fed members and represents them in good faith, our cases
do not require further scrutiny into how the organization
operates. Because SFFA complies with the standing re-
quirements demanded of organizational plaintiffs in Hunt, its
obligations under Article III are satisfed.

III
A
In the wake of the Civil War, Congress proposed and the
States ratifed the Fourteenth Amendment, providing that
no State shall “deny to any person . . . the equal protection
of the laws.” Amdt. 14, § 1. To its proponents, the Equal
Protection Clause represented a “foundation[al] principle”—
“the absolute equality of all citizens of the United States
politically and civilly before their own laws.” Cong. Globe,
39th Cong., 1st Sess., 431 (1866) (statement of Rep. Bingham)
202 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

(Cong. Globe). The Constitution, they were determined,
“should not permit any distinctions of law based on race or
color,” Supp. Brief for United States on Reargument in
Brown v. Board of Education, O. T. 1953, No. 1 etc., p. 41
(detailing the history of the adoption of the Equal Protection
Clause), because any “law which operates upon one man
[should] operate equally upon all,” Cong. Globe 2459 (state-
ment of Rep. Stevens). As soon-to-be President James Gar-
feld observed, the Fourteenth Amendment would hold “over
every American citizen, without regard to color, the protect-
ing shield of law.” Id., at 2462. And in doing so, said Sena-
tor Jacob Howard of Michigan, the Amendment would give
“to the humblest, the poorest, the most despised of the race
the same rights and the same protection before the law as it
gives to the most powerful, the most wealthy, or the most
haughty.” Id., at 2766. For “[w]ithout this principle of
equal justice,” Howard continued, “there is no republican
Page Proof Pending Publication
government and none that is really worth maintaining.”
Ibid.
At frst, this Court embraced the transcendent aims of the
Equal Protection Clause. “What is this,” we said of the
Clause in 1880, “but declaring that the law in the States shall
be the same for the black as for the white; that all persons,
whether colored or white, shall stand equal before the laws
of the States?” Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303,
307–309 (1880). “[T]he broad and benign provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment” apply “to all persons,” we unani-
mously declared six years later; it is “hostility to . . . race
and nationality” “which in the eye of the law is not justifed.”
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 368–369, 373–374 (1886);
see also id., at 368 (applying the Clause to “aliens and sub-
jects of the Emperor of China”); Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.
33, 36 (1915) (“a native of Austria”); semble Strauder, 100
U. S., at 308–309 (“Celtic Irishmen”) (dictum).
Despite our early recognition of the broad sweep of the
Equal Protection Clause, this Court—alongside the coun-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 203

Opinion of the Court

try—quickly failed to live up to the Clause's core commit-
ments. For almost a century after the Civil War, state-
mandated segregation was in many parts of the Nation a
regrettable norm. This Court played its own role in that
ignoble history, allowing in Plessy v. Ferguson the separate
but equal regime that would come to deface much of
America. 163 U. S. 537 (1896). The aspirations of the fram-
ers of the Equal Protection Clause, “[v]irtually strangled in
[their] infancy,” would remain for too long only that—aspira-
tions. J. Tussman & J. tenBroek, The Equal Protection of
the Laws, 37 Cal. L. Rev. 341, 381 (1949).
After Plessy, “American courts . . . labored with the doc-
trine [of separate but equal] for over half a century. ”
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483, 491 (1954).
Some cases in this period attempted to curtail the perni-
ciousness of the doctrine by emphasizing that it required
States to provide black students educational opportunities
Page Proof Pending Publication
equal to—even if formally separate from—those enjoyed by
white students. See, e. g., Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Can-
ada, 305 U. S. 337, 349–350 (1938) (“The admissibility of laws
separating the races in the enjoyment of privileges afforded
by the State rests wholly upon the equality of the privileges
which the laws give to the separated groups . . . .”). But
the inherent folly of that approach—of trying to derive equal-
ity from inequality—soon became apparent. As the Court
subsequently recognized, even racial distinctions that were ar-
gued to have no palpable effect worked to subordinate the af-
ficted students. See, e. g., McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Re-
gents for Higher Ed., 339 U. S. 637, 640–642 (1950) (“It is said
that the separations imposed by the State in this case are in
form merely nominal. . . . But they signify that the State . . .
sets [petitioner] apart from the other students.”). By 1950,
the inevitable truth of the Fourteenth Amendment had thus
begun to reemerge: Separate cannot be equal.
The culmination of this approach came fnally in Brown v.
Board of Education. In that seminal decision, we over-
204 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

turned Plessy for good and set frmly on the path of invali-
dating all de jure racial discrimination by the States and
Federal Government. 347 U. S., at 494–495. Brown con-
cerned the permissibility of racial segregation in public
schools. The school district maintained that such segrega-
tion was lawful because the schools provided to black stu-
dents and white students were of roughly the same quality.
But we held such segregation impermissible “even though
the physical facilities and other `tangible' factors may be
equal.” Id., at 493 (emphasis added). The mere act of sepa-
rating “children . . . because of their race,” we explained,
itself “generate[d] a feeling of inferiority.” Id., at 494.
The conclusion reached by the Brown Court was thus un-
mistakably clear: the right to a public education “must be
made available to all on equal terms.” Id., at 493. As the
plaintiffs had argued, “no State has any authority under the
equal-protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to use
Page Proof Pending Publication
race as a factor in affording educational opportunities among
its citizens.” Tr. of Oral Arg. in Brown I, O. T. 1952, No. 8,
p. 7 (Robert L. Carter, Dec. 9, 1952); see also Supp. Brief
for Appellants on Reargument in Nos. 1, 2, and 4, and for
Respondents in No. 10, in Brown v. Board of Education,
O. T. 1953, p. 65 (“That the Constitution is color blind is our
dedicated belief.”); post, at 268, n. 7 (Thomas, J., concurring).
The Court reiterated that rule just one year later, holding
that “full compliance” with Brown required schools to admit
students “on a racially nondiscriminatory basis.” Brown v.
Board of Education, 349 U. S. 294, 300–301 (1955). The
time for making distinctions based on race had passed.
Brown, the Court observed, “declar[ed] the fundamental
principle that racial discrimination in public education is un-
constitutional.” Id., at 298.
So too in other areas of life. Immediately after Brown,
we began routinely affrming lower court decisions that in-
validated all manner of race-based state action. In Gayle
v. Browder, for example, we summarily affrmed a decision
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 205

Opinion of the Court

invalidating state and local laws that required segregation in
busing. 352 U. S. 903 (1956) (per curiam). As the lower
court explained, “[t]he equal protection clause requires
equality of treatment before the law for all persons without
regard to race or color.” Browder v. Gayle, 142 F. Supp.
707, 715 (MD Ala. 1956). And in Mayor and City Council
of Baltimore v. Dawson, we summarily affrmed a decision
striking down racial segregation at public beaches and bath-
houses maintained by the State of Maryland and the city of
Baltimore. 350 U. S. 877 (1955) (per curiam). “[I]t is obvi-
ous that racial segregation in recreational activities can no
longer be sustained,” the lower court observed. Dawson v.
Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, 220 F. 2d 386, 387
(CA4 1955) (per curiam). “[T]he ideal of equality before the
law which characterizes our institutions” demanded as
much. Ibid.
In the decades that followed, this Court continued to vindi-
Page Proof Pending Publication
cate the Constitution's pledge of racial equality. Laws di-
viding parks and golf courses; neighborhoods and businesses;
buses and trains; schools and juries were undone, all by a
transformative promise “stemming from our American ideal
of fairness”: “ `the Constitution . . . forbids . . . discrimination
by the General Government, or by the States, against any
citizen because of his race.' ” Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U. S.
497, 499 (1954) (quoting Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565,
591 (1896) (Harlan, J., for the Court)). As we recounted in
striking down the Commonwealth of Virginia's ban on inter-
racial marriage 13 years after Brown, the Fourteenth
Amendment “proscri[bes] . . . all invidious racial discrimina-
tions.” Loving v. Virginia, 388 U. S. 1, 8 (1967). Our cases
had thus “consistently denied the constitutionality of meas-
ures which restrict the rights of citizens on account of race.”
Id., at 11–12; see also Yick Wo, 118 U. S., at 373–375 (commer-
cial property); Shelley v. Kraemer, 334 U. S. 1 (1948) (housing
covenants); Hernandez v. Texas, 347 U. S. 475 (1954) (composi-
tion of juries); Dawson, 350 U. S., at 877 (beaches and bath-
206 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

houses); Holmes v. Atlanta, 350 U. S. 879 (1955) (per curiam)
(golf courses); Browder, 352 U. S., at 903 (busing); New Or-
leans City Park Improvement Assn. v. Detiege, 358 U. S. 54
(1958) (per curiam) (public parks); Bailey v. Patterson,
369 U. S. 31 (1962) (per curiam) (transportation facilities);
Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Bd. of Ed., 402 U. S. 1
(1971) (education); Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79 (1986)
(peremptory jury strikes).
These decisions refect the “core purpose” of the Equal
Protection Clause: “do[ing] away with all governmentally
imposed discrimination based on race.” Palmore v. Sidoti,
466 U. S. 429, 432 (1984) (footnote omitted). We have recog-
nized that repeatedly. “The clear and central purpose of the
Fourteenth Amendment was to eliminate all offcial state
sources of invidious racial discrimination in the States.”
Loving, 388 U. S., at 10; see also Washington v. Davis, 426
U. S. 229, 239 (1976) (“The central purpose of the Equal Pro-
tection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is the preven-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tion of offcial conduct discriminating on the basis of race.”);
McLaughlin v. Florida, 379 U. S. 184, 192 (1964) (“[T]he his-
torical fact [is] that the central purpose of the Fourteenth
Amendment was to eliminate racial discrimination.”).
Eliminating racial discrimination means eliminating all of
it. And the Equal Protection Clause, we have accordingly
held, applies “without regard to any differences of race, of
color, or of nationality”—it is “universal in [its] application.”
Yick Wo, 118 U. S., at 369. For “[t]he guarantee of equal
protection cannot mean one thing when applied to one indi-
vidual and something else when applied to a person of an-
other color.” Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265,
289–290 (1978) (opinion of Powell, J.). “If both are not ac-
corded the same protection, then it is not equal.” Id., at 290.
Any exception to the Constitution's demand for equal
protection must survive a daunting two-step examination
known in our cases as “strict scrutiny.” Adarand Construc-
tors, Inc. v. Peña, 515 U. S. 200, 227 (1995). Under that
standard we ask, frst, whether the racial classifcation
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 207

Opinion of the Court

is used to “further compelling governmental interests.”
Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 306, 326 (2003). Second, if
so, we ask whether the government's use of race is “nar-
rowly tailored”—meaning “necessary”—to achieve that in-
terest. Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin, 570 U. S. 297,
311–312 (2013) (Fisher I) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Outside the circumstances of these cases, our precedents
have identifed only two compelling interests that permit re-
sort to race-based government action. One is remediating
specifc, identifed instances of past discrimination that vio-
lated the Constitution or a statute. See, e. g., Parents In-
volved in Community Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. 1,
551 U. S. 701, 720 (2007); Shaw v. Hunt, 517 U. S. 899, 909–
910 (1996); post, at 248–249, 259–260 (opinion of Thomas, J.).
The second is avoiding imminent and serious risks to human
safety in prisons, such as a race riot. See Johnson v. Cali-
fornia, 543 U. S. 499, 512–513 (2005).3
Page
3
Proof Pending Publication
The frst time we determined that a governmental racial classifcation
satisfed “the most rigid scrutiny” was 10 years before Brown v. Board of
Education, 347 U. S. 483 (1954), in the infamous case Korematsu v. United
States, 323 U. S. 214, 216 (1944). There, the Court upheld the internment
of “all persons of Japanese ancestry in prescribed West Coast . . . areas”
during World War II because “the military urgency of the situation de-
manded” it. Id., at 217, 223. We have since overruled Korematsu, rec-
ognizing that it was “gravely wrong the day it was decided.” Trump v.
Hawaii, 585 U. S. –––, ––– (2018). The Court's decision in Korematsu
nevertheless “demonstrates vividly that even the most rigid scrutiny
can sometimes fail to detect an illegitimate racial classifcation” and that
“[a]ny retreat from the most searching judicial inquiry can only increase
the risk of another such error occurring in the future.” Adarand Con-
structors, Inc. v. Peña, 515 U. S. 200, 236 (1995) (internal quotation
marks omitted).
The principal dissent, for its part, claims that the Court has also permit-
ted “the use of race when that use burdens minority populations.” Post,
at 354–355 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). In support of that claim, the dis-
sent cites two cases that have nothing to do with the Equal Protection
Clause. See ibid. (citing United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U. S. 873
(1975) (Fourth Amendment case), and United States v. Martinez-Fuerte,
428 U. S. 543 (1976) (another Fourth Amendment case)).
208 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

Our acceptance of race-based state action has been rare
for a reason. “Distinctions between citizens solely because
of their ancestry are by their very nature odious to a free
people whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of
equality.” Rice v. Cayetano, 528 U. S. 495, 517 (2000) (quot-
ing Hirabayashi v. United States, 320 U. S. 81, 100 (1943)).
That principle cannot be overridden except in the most ex-
traordinary case.
B
These cases involve whether a university may make admis-
sions decisions that turn on an applicant's race. Our Court
frst considered that issue in Regents of University of Cali-
fornia v. Bakke, which involved a set-aside admissions pro-
gram used by the University of California, Davis, medical
school. 438 U. S., at 272–276. Each year, the school held 16
of its 100 seats open for members of certain minority groups,
who were reviewed on a special admissions track separate
Page Proof Pending Publication
from those in the main admissions pool. Id., at 272–275.
The plaintiff, Allan Bakke, was denied admission two years
in a row, despite the admission of minority applicants with
lower grade point averages and MCAT scores. Id., at 276–
277. Bakke subsequently sued the school, arguing that its
set-aside program violated the Equal Protection Clause.
In a deeply splintered decision that produced six different
opinions—none of which commanded a majority of the
Court—we ultimately ruled in part in favor of the school
and in part in favor of Bakke. Justice Powell announced
the Court's judgment, and his opinion—though written for
himself alone—would eventually come to “serv[e] as the
touchstone for constitutional analysis of race-conscious ad-
missions policies.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 323.
Justice Powell began by fnding three of the school's four
justifcations for its policy not suffciently compelling. The
school's frst justifcation of “reducing the historic defcit of
traditionally disfavored minorities in medical schools,” he
wrote, was akin to “[p]referring members of any one group
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 209

Opinion of the Court

for no reason other than race or ethnic origin.” Bakke, 438
U. S., at 306–307 (internal quotation marks omitted). Yet
that was “discrimination for its own sake,” which “the Con-
stitution forbids.” Id., at 307 (citing, inter alia, Loving, 388
U. S., at 11). Justice Powell next observed that the goal of
“remedying . . . the effects of `societal discrimination' ” was
also insuffcient because it was “an amorphous concept of in-
jury that may be ageless in its reach into the past.” Bakke,
438 U. S., at 307. Finally, Justice Powell found there was
“virtually no evidence in the record indicating that [the
school's] special admissions program” would, as the school
had argued, increase the number of doctors working in un-
derserved areas. Id., at 310.
Justice Powell then turned to the school's last interest as-
serted to be compelling—obtaining the educational benefts
that fow from a racially diverse student body. That inter-
est, in his view, was “a constitutionally permissible goal for
Page Proof Pending Publication
an institution of higher education.” Id., at 311–312. And
that was so, he opined, because a university was entitled as
a matter of academic freedom “to make its own judgments
as to . . . the selection of its student body.” Id., at 312.
But a university's freedom was not unlimited. “Racial
and ethnic distinctions of any sort are inherently suspect,”
Justice Powell explained, and antipathy toward them was
deeply “rooted in our Nation's constitutional and demo-
graphic history.” Id., at 291. A university could not em-
ploy a quota system, for example, reserving “a specifed num-
ber of seats in each class for individuals from the preferred
ethnic groups.” Id., at 315. Nor could it impose a “multi-
track program with a prescribed number of seats set aside
for each identifable category of applicants.” Ibid. And
neither still could it use race to foreclose an individual “from
all consideration . . . simply because he was not the right
color.” Id., at 318.
The role of race had to be cabined. It could operate only
as “a `plus' in a particular applicant's fle.” Id., at 317. And
210 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

even then, race was to be weighed in a manner “fexible
enough to consider all pertinent elements of diversity in light
of the particular qualifcations of each applicant.” Ibid.
Justice Powell derived this approach from what he called the
“illuminating example” of the admissions system then used
by Harvard College. Id., at 316. Under that system, as de-
scribed by Harvard in a brief it had fled with the Court,
“the race of an applicant may tip the balance in his favor just
as geographic origin or a life [experience] may tip the bal-
ance in other candidates' cases.” Ibid. (internal quotation
marks omitted). Harvard continued: “A farm boy from
Idaho can bring something to Harvard College that a Bosto-
nian cannot offer. Similarly, a black student can usually
bring something that a white person cannot offer.” Ibid.
(internal quotation marks omitted). The result, Harvard
proclaimed, was that “race has been”—and should be—“a
factor in some admission decisions.” Ibid. (internal quota-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tion marks omitted).
No other Member of the Court joined Justice Powell's
opinion. Four Justices instead would have held that the
government may use race for the purpose of “remedying the
effects of past societal discrimination.” Id., at 362 ( joint
opinion of Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ., con-
curring in judgment in part and dissenting in part). Four
other Justices, meanwhile, would have struck down the
Davis program as violative of Title VI. In their view, it
“seem[ed] clear that the proponents of Title VI assumed that
the Constitution itself required a colorblind standard on the
part of government.” Id., at 416 (Stevens, J., joined by
Burger, C. J., and Stewart and Rehnquist, JJ., concurring in
judgment in part and dissenting in part). The Davis pro-
gram therefore fatly contravened a core “principle imbedded
in the constitutional and moral understanding of the times”:
the prohibition against “racial discrimination.” Id., at 418,
n. 21 (internal quotation marks omitted).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 211

Opinion of the Court

C
In the years that followed our “fractured decision in
Bakke,” lower courts “struggled to discern whether Justice
Powell's” opinion constituted “binding precedent.” Grutter,
539 U. S., at 325. We accordingly took up the matter again
in 2003, in the case Grutter v. Bollinger, which concerned
the admissions system used by the University of Michigan
law school. Id., at 311. There, in another sharply divided
decision, the Court for the frst time “endorse[d] Justice
Powell's view that student body diversity is a compelling
state interest that can justify the use of race in university
admissions.” Id., at 325.
The Court's analysis tracked Justice Powell's in many re-
spects. As for compelling interest, the Court held that
“[t]he Law School's educational judgment that such diversity
is essential to its educational mission is one to which we
defer.” Id., at 328. In achieving that goal, however, the
Page Proof Pending Publication
Court made clear—just as Justice Powell had—that the law
school was limited in the means that it could pursue. The
school could not “establish quotas for members of certain
racial groups or put members of those groups on separate
admissions tracks.” Id., at 334. Neither could it “insulate
applicants who belong to certain racial or ethnic groups from
the competition for admission.” Ibid. Nor still could it de-
sire “some specifed percentage of a particular group merely
because of its race or ethnic origin.” Id., at 329–330 (quot-
ing Bakke, 438 U. S., at 307 (opinion of Powell, J.)).
These limits, Grutter explained, were intended to guard
against two dangers that all race-based government action
portends. The frst is the risk that the use of race will de-
volve into “illegitimate . . . stereotyp[ing].” Richmond v.
J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469, 493 (1989) (plurality opinion).
Universities were thus not permitted to operate their admis-
sions programs on the “belief that minority students always
(or even consistently) express some characteristic minority
212 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

viewpoint on any issue.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 333 (internal
quotation marks omitted). The second risk is that race
would be used not as a plus, but as a negative—to discrimi-
nate against those racial groups that were not the benefci-
aries of the race-based preference. A university's use of
race, accordingly, could not occur in a manner that “unduly
harm[ed] nonminority applicants.” Id., at 341.
But even with these constraints in place, Grutter ex-
pressed marked discomfort with the use of race in college
admissions. The Court stressed the fundamental principle
that “there are serious problems of justice connected with
the idea of [racial] preference itself.” Ibid. (quoting Bakke,
438 U. S., at 298 (opinion of Powell, J.)). It observed that all
“racial classifcations, however compelling their goals,” were
“dangerous.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342. And it cautioned
that all “race-based governmental action” should “remai[n]
subject to continuing oversight to assure that it will work the
Page Proof Pending Publication
least harm possible to other innocent persons competing for
the beneft.” Id., at 341 (internal quotation marks omitted).
To manage these concerns, Grutter imposed one fnal limit
on race-based admissions programs. At some point, the
Court held, they must end. Id., at 342. This requirement
was critical, and Grutter emphasized it repeatedly. “[A]ll
race-conscious admissions programs [must] have a termina-
tion point”; they “must have reasonable durational limits”;
they “must be limited in time”; they must have “sunset pro-
visions”; they “must have a logical end point”; their “devia-
tion from the norm of equal treatment” must be “a tempo-
rary matter.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).
The importance of an end point was not just a matter
of repetition. It was the reason the Court was willing to
dispense temporarily with the Constitution's unambigu-
ous guarantee of equal protection. The Court recognized
as much: “[e]nshrining a permanent justifcation for racial
preferences,” the Court explained, “would offend this funda-
mental equal protection principle.” Ibid.; see also id., at
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 213

Opinion of the Court

342–343 (quoting N. Nathanson & C. Bartnik, The Constitu-
tionality of Preferential Treatment for Minority Applicants
to Professional Schools, 58 Chi. Bar Rec. 282, 293 (May–June
1977), for the proposition that “[i]t would be a sad day in-
deed, were America to become a quota-ridden society, with
each identifable minority assigned proportional representa-
tion in every desirable walk of life”).
Grutter thus concluded with the following caution: “It has
been 25 years since Justice Powell frst approved the use of
race to further an interest in student body diversity in the
context of public higher education. . . . We expect that 25
years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer
be necessary to further the interest approved today.” 539
U. S., at 343.
IV
Twenty years later, no end is in sight. “Harvard's view
about when [race-based admissions will end] doesn't have a
Page Proof Pending Publication
date on it.” Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, p. 85; Brief for
Respondent in No. 20–1199, p. 52. Neither does UNC's.
567 F. Supp. 3d, at 612. Yet both insist that the use of race
in their admissions programs must continue.
But we have permitted race-based admissions only within
the confnes of narrow restrictions. University programs
must comply with strict scrutiny, they may never use race
as a stereotype or negative, and—at some point—they must
end. Respondents' admissions systems—however well in-
tentioned and implemented in good faith—fail each of these
criteria. They must therefore be invalidated under the
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.4

4
The United States as amicus curiae contends that race-based admis-
sions programs further compelling interests at our Nation's military acad-
emies. No military academy is a party to these cases, however, and none
of the courts below addressed the propriety of race-based admissions sys-
tems in that context. This opinion also does not address the issue, in light
of the potentially distinct interests that military academies may present.
214 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

A
Because “[r]acial discrimination [is] invidious in all con-
texts,” Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co., 500 U. S. 614,
619 (1991), we have required that universities operate their
race-based admissions programs in a manner that is “suff-
ciently measurable to permit judicial [review]” under the ru-
bric of strict scrutiny, Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin,
579 U. S. 365, 381 (2016) (Fisher II). “Classifying and as-
signing” students based on their race “requires more than
. . . an amorphous end to justify it.” Parents Involved, 551
U. S., at 735.
Respondents have fallen short of satisfying that burden.
First, the interests they view as compelling cannot be sub-
jected to meaningful judicial review. Harvard identifes the
following educational benefts that it is pursuing: (1) “train-
ing future leaders in the public and private sectors”; (2) pre-
paring graduates to “adapt to an increasingly pluralistic soci-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ety”; (3) “better educating its students through diversity”;
and (4) “producing new knowledge stemming from diverse
outlooks.” 980 F. 3d, at 173–174. UNC points to similar
benefts, namely, “(1) promoting the robust exchange of ideas;
(2) broadening and refning understanding; (3) fostering inno-
vation and problem-solving; (4) preparing engaged and pro-
ductive citizens and leaders; [and] (5) enhancing appreciation,
respect, and empathy, cross-racial understanding, and break-
ing down stereotypes.” 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 656.
Although these are commendable goals, they are not suff-
ciently coherent for purposes of strict scrutiny. At the out-
set, it is unclear how courts are supposed to measure any of
these goals. How is a court to know whether leaders have
been adequately “train[ed]”; whether the exchange of ideas
is “robust”; or whether “new knowledge” is being developed?
Ibid.; 980 F. 3d, at 173–174. Even if these goals could some-
how be measured, moreover, how is a court to know when
they have been reached, and when the perilous remedy of
racial preferences may cease? There is no particular point
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 215

Opinion of the Court

at which there exists suffcient “innovation and problem-
solving,” or students who are appropriately “engaged and
productive.” 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 656. Finally, the question
in this context is not one of no diversity or of some: it is a
question of degree. How many fewer leaders Harvard
would create without racial preferences, or how much poorer
the education at Harvard would be, are inquiries no court
could resolve.
Comparing respondents' asserted goals to interests we
have recognized as compelling further illustrates their elu-
sive nature. In the context of racial violence in a prison, for
example, courts can ask whether temporary racial segrega-
tion of inmates will prevent harm to those in the prison.
See Johnson, 543 U. S., at 512–513. When it comes to work-
place discrimination, courts can ask whether a race-based
beneft makes members of the discriminated class “whole for
[the] injuries [they] suffered.” Franks v. Bowman Transp.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Co., 424 U. S. 747, 763 (1976) (internal quotation marks omit-
ted). And in school segregation cases, courts can determine
whether any race-based remedial action produces a distribu-
tion of students “compar[able] to what it would have been in
the absence of such constitutional violations.” Dayton Bd.
of Ed. v. Brinkman, 433 U. S. 406, 420 (1977).
Nothing like that is possible when it comes to evaluating
the interests respondents assert here. Unlike discerning
whether a prisoner will be injured or whether an employee
should receive backpay, the question whether a particular
mix of minority students produces “engaged and productive
citizens,” suffciently “enhance[s] appreciation, respect, and
empathy,” or effectively “train[s] future leaders” is standard-
less. 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 656; 980 F. 3d, at 173–174. The
interests that respondents seek, though plainly worthy, are
inescapably imponderable.
Second, respondents' admissions programs fail to articu-
late a meaningful connection between the means they em-
ploy and the goals they pursue. To achieve the educational
216 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

benefts of diversity, UNC works to avoid the underrepresen-
tation of minority groups, 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 591–592, and
n. 7, while Harvard likewise “guard[s] against inadvertent
drop-offs in representation” of certain minority groups from
year to year, Brief for Respondent in No. 20–1199, at 16.
To accomplish both of those goals, in turn, the universities
measure the racial composition of their classes using the fol-
lowing categories: (1) Asian; (2) Native Hawaiian or Pacifc
Islander; (3) Hispanic; (4) White; (5) African-American; and
(6) Native American. See, e. g., 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 137, 178;
3 App. in No. 20–1199, at 1278, 1280–1283; 3 App. in No. 21–
707, at 1234–1241. It is far from evident, though, how as-
signing students to these racial categories and making ad-
missions decisions based on them furthers the educational
benefts that the universities claim to pursue.
For starters, the categories are themselves imprecise in
many ways. Some of them are plainly overbroad: by group-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ing together all Asian students, for instance, respondents are
apparently uninterested in whether South Asian or East
Asian students are adequately represented, so long as there
is enough of one to compensate for a lack of the other.
Meanwhile other racial categories, such as “Hispanic,” are
arbitrary or undefned. See, e. g., M. Lopez, J. Krogstad, &
J. Passel, Pew Research Center, Who is Hispanic? (Sept. 15,
2022) (referencing the “long history of changing labels [and]
shifting categories . . . refect[ing] evolving cultural norms
about what it means to be Hispanic or Latino in the U. S.
today”). And still other categories are underinclusive.
When asked at oral argument “how are applicants from Mid-
dle Eastern countries classifed, [such as] Jordan, Iraq, Iran,
[and] Egypt,” UNC's counsel responded, “[I] do not know the
answer to that question.” Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–707,
p. 107; cf. post, at 291–292 (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (detail-
ing the “incoherent” and “irrational stereotypes” that these
racial categories further).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 217

Opinion of the Court

Indeed, the use of these opaque racial categories under-
mines, instead of promotes, respondents' goals. By focusing
on underrepresentation, respondents would apparently pre-
fer a class with 15% of students from Mexico over a class
with 10% of students from several Latin American countries,
simply because the former contains more Hispanic students
than the latter. Yet “[i]t is hard to understand how a plan
that could allow these results can be viewed as being con-
cerned with achieving enrollment that is `broadly diverse.' ”
Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at 724 (quoting Grutter, 539
U. S., at 329). And given the mismatch between the means
respondents employ and the goals they seek, it is especially
hard to understand how courts are supposed to scrutinize
the admissions programs that respondents use.
The universities' main response to these criticisms is, es-
sentially, “trust us.” None of the questions recited above
need answering, they say, because universities are “owed
Page Proof Pending Publication
deference” when using race to beneft some applicants but
not others. Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–707,
at 39 (internal quotation marks omitted). It is true that our
cases have recognized a “tradition of giving a degree of def-
erence to a university's academic decisions.” Grutter, 539
U. S., at 328. But we have been unmistakably clear that any
deference must exist “within constitutionally prescribed lim-
its,” ibid., and that “deference does not imply abandonment
or abdication of judicial review,” Miller–El v. Cockrell, 537
U. S. 322, 340 (2003). Universities may defne their missions
as they see ft. The Constitution defnes ours. Courts may
not license separating students on the basis of race without
an exceedingly persuasive justifcation that is measurable
and concrete enough to permit judicial review. As this
Court has repeatedly reaffrmed, “[r]acial classifcations are
simply too pernicious to permit any but the most exact con-
nection between justifcation and classifcation.” Gratz v.
Bollinger, 539 U. S. 244, 270 (2003) (internal quotation marks
218 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

omitted). The programs at issue here do not satisfy that
standard.5
B
The race-based admissions systems that respondents em-
ploy also fail to comply with the twin commands of the Equal
Protection Clause that race may never be used as a “nega-
tive” and that it may not operate as a stereotype.
First, our cases have stressed that an individual's race may
never be used against him in the admissions process. Here,
however, the First Circuit found that Harvard's consider-
ation of race has led to an 11.1% decrease in the number of
Asian-Americans admitted to Harvard. 980 F. 3d, at 170,
n. 29. And the District Court observed that Harvard's “pol-
icy of considering applicants' race . . . overall results in fewer
Asian American and white students being admitted.” 397
F. Supp. 3d, at 178.
Respondents nonetheless contend that an individual's race
Page Proof Pending Publication
is never a negative factor in their admissions programs, but
that assertion cannot withstand scrutiny. Harvard, for ex-
ample, draws an analogy between race and other factors it
considers in admission. “[W]hile admissions offcers may
give a preference to applicants likely to excel in the Harvard-
Radcliffe Orchestra,” Harvard explains, “that does not mean
it is a `negative' not to excel at a musical instrument.” Brief
for Respondent in No. 20–1199, at 51. But on Harvard's
logic, while it gives preferences to applicants with high
grades and test scores, “that does not mean it is a `negative' ”
to be a student with lower grades and lower test scores.
Ibid. This understanding of the admissions process is hard
to take seriously. College admissions are zero-sum. A ben-
5
For that reason, one dissent candidly advocates abandoning the de-
mands of strict scrutiny. See post, at 407–410 (opinion of Jackson, J.)
(arguing the Court must “get out of the way,” “leav[e] well enough alone,”
and defer to universities and “experts” in determining who should be dis-
criminated against). An opinion professing fdelity to history (to say
nothing of the law) should surely see the folly in that approach.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 219

Opinion of the Court

eft provided to some applicants but not to others necessarily
advantages the former group at the expense of the latter.
Respondents also suggest that race is not a negative factor
because it does not impact many admissions decisions. See
id., at 49; Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–707,
at 2. Yet, at the same time, respondents also maintain that
the demographics of their admitted classes would meaning-
fully change if race-based admissions were abandoned. And
they acknowledge that race is determinative for at least
some—if not many—of the students they admit. See, e. g.,
Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, at 67; 567 F. Supp. 3d, at
633. How else but “negative” can race be described if, in its
absence, members of some racial groups would be admitted
in greater numbers than they otherwise would have been?
The “[e]qual protection of the laws is not achieved through
indiscriminate imposition of inequalities.” Shelley, 334
U. S., at 22.6
Respondents' admissions programs are infrm for a second
Page Proof Pending Publication
reason as well. We have long held that universities may not
operate their admissions programs on the “belief that minor-
ity students always (or even consistently) express some char-
acteristic minority viewpoint on any issue.” Grutter, 539
U. S., at 333 (internal quotation marks omitted). That re-
quirement is found throughout our Equal Protection Clause

6
Justice Jackson contends that race does not play a “determinative
role for applicants” to UNC. Post, at 406. But even the principal dissent
acknowledges that race—and race alone—explains the admissions deci-
sions for hundreds if not thousands of applicants to UNC each year. Post,
at 349, n. 28 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); see also Students for Fair Admis-
sions, Inc. v. University of N. C. at Chapel Hill, No. 1:14–cv–954 (MDNC,
Dec. 21, 2020), ECF Doc. 233, at 23–27 (UNC expert testifying that race
explains 1.2% of in state and 5.1% of out of state admissions decisions); 3
App. in No. 21–707, at 1069 (observing that UNC evaluated 57,225 in state
applicants and 105,632 out of state applicants from 2016–2021). The sug-
gestion by the principal dissent that our analysis relies on extra-record
materials, see post, at 345–346, n. 25 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.), is sim-
ply mistaken.
220 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

jurisprudence more generally. See, e. g., Schuette v. BAMN,
572 U. S. 291, 308 (2014) (plurality opinion) (“In cautioning
against `impermissible racial stereotypes,' this Court has re-
jected the assumption that `members of the same racial
group—regardless of their age, education, economic status,
or the community in which they live—think alike . . . .' ”
(quoting Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630, 647 (1993))).
Yet by accepting race-based admissions programs in which
some students may obtain preferences on the basis of race
alone, respondents' programs tolerate the very thing that
Grutter foreswore: stereotyping. The point of respondents'
admissions programs is that there is an inherent beneft in
race qua race—in race for race's sake. Respondents admit
as much. Harvard's admissions process rests on the perni-
cious stereotype that “a black student can usually bring
something that a white person cannot offer.” Bakke, 438
U. S., at 316 (opinion of Powell, J.) (internal quotation marks
Page Proof Pending Publication
omitted); see also Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, at 92.
UNC is much the same. It argues that race in itself “says
[something] about who you are.” Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–
707, at 97; see also id., at 96 (analogizing being of a certain
race to being from a rural area).
We have time and again forcefully rejected the notion that
government actors may intentionally allocate preference to
those “who may have little in common with one another but
the color of their skin.” Shaw, 509 U. S., at 647. The entire
point of the Equal Protection Clause is that treating someone
differently because of their skin color is not like treating
them differently because they are from a city or from a sub-
urb, or because they play the violin poorly or well.
“One of the principal reasons race is treated as a forbidden
classifcation is that it demeans the dignity and worth of a
person to be judged by ancestry instead of by his or her own
merit and essential qualities.” Rice, 528 U. S., at 517. But
when a university admits students “on the basis of race, it
engages in the offensive and demeaning assumption that
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 221

Opinion of the Court

[students] of a particular race, because of their race, think
alike,” Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S. 900, 911–912 (1995) (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted)—at the very least alike in
the sense of being different from nonminority students. In
doing so, the university furthers “stereotypes that treat indi-
viduals as the product of their race, evaluating their
thoughts and efforts—their very worth as citizens—accord-
ing to a criterion barred to the Government by history and
the Constitution.” Id., at 912 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Such stereotyping can only “cause[ ] continued
hurt and injury,” Edmonson, 500 U. S., at 631, contrary as it
is to the “core purpose” of the Equal Protection Clause,
Palmore, 466 U. S., at 432.
C
If all this were not enough, respondents' admissions pro-
grams also lack a “logical end point.” Grutter, 539 U. S.,
at 342.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Respondents and the Government frst suggest that re-
spondents' race-based admissions programs will end when,
in their absence, there is “meaningful representation and
meaningful diversity” on college campuses. Tr. of Oral Arg.
in No. 21–707, at 167. The metric of meaningful representa-
tion, respondents assert, does not involve any “strict numeri-
cal benchmark,” id., at 86; or “precise number or percent-
age,” id., at 167; or “specifed percentage,” Brief for
Respondent in No. 20–1199, at 38 (internal quotation marks
omitted). So what does it involve?
Numbers all the same. At Harvard, each full committee
meeting begins with a discussion of “how the breakdown of
the class compares to the prior year in terms of racial identi-
ties.” 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 146. And “if at some point in
the admissions process it appears that a group is notably
underrepresented or has suffered a dramatic drop off relative
to the prior year, the Admissions Committee may decide
to give additional attention to applications from students
within that group.” Ibid.; see also id., at 147 (District Court
222 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

fnding that Harvard uses race to “track[ ] how each class is
shaping up relative to previous years with an eye towards
achieving a level of racial diversity”); 2 App. in No. 20–1199,
at 821–822.
The results of the Harvard admissions process refect this
numerical commitment. For the admitted classes of 2009 to
2018, black students represented a tight band of 10.0%–11.7%
of the admitted pool. The same theme held true for other
minority groups:

Page Proof Pending Publication

Brief for Petitioner in No. 20–1199 etc., p. 23. Harvard's
focus on numbers is obvious.7
7
The principal dissent claims that “[t]he fact that Harvard's racial shares
of admitted applicants varies relatively little . . . is unsurprising and re-
fects the fact that the racial makeup of Harvard's applicant pool also var-
ies very little over this period.” Post, at 351 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.)
(internal quotation marks omitted). But that is exactly the point: Har-
vard must use precise racial preferences year in and year out to maintain
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 223

Opinion of the Court

UNC's admissions program operates similarly. The Uni-
versity frames the challenge it faces as “the admission and
enrollment of underrepresented minorities,” Brief for Uni-
versity Respondents in No. 21–707, at 7, a metric that turns
solely on whether a group's “percentage enrollment within
the undergraduate student body is lower than their percent-
age within the general population in North Carolina,” 567
F. Supp. 3d, at 591, n. 7; see also Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–
707, at 79. The University “has not yet fully achieved its
diversity-related educational goals,” it explains, in part due
to its failure to obtain closer to proportional representation.
Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–707, at 7; see also
567 F. Supp. 3d, at 594.
The problem with these approaches is well established.
“[O]utright racial balancing” is “patently unconstitutional.”
Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 311 (internal quotation marks omitted).
That is so, we have repeatedly explained, because “[a]t the
heart of the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection lies
Page Proof Pending Publication
the simple command that the Government must treat citizens
as individuals, not as simply components of a racial, religious,
sexual or national class.” Miller, 515 U. S., at 911 (internal
quotation marks omitted). By promising to terminate their
use of race only when some rough percentage of various ra-
cial groups is admitted, respondents turn that principle on

the unyielding demographic composition of its class. The dissent is thus
left to attack the numbers themselves, arguing they were “handpicked”
“from a truncated period.” Ibid., n. 29 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). As
supposed proof, the dissent notes that the share of Asian students at Har-
vard varied signifcantly from 1980 to 1994—a 14-year period that ended
nearly three decades ago. 4 App. in No. 20–1199, at 1770. But the rele-
vance of that observation—handpicked and truncated as it is—is lost on
us. And the dissent does not and cannot dispute that the share of black
and Hispanic students at Harvard—“the primary benefciaries” of its race-
based admissions policy—has remained consistent for decades. 397
F. Supp. 3d, at 178; 4 App. in No. 20–1199, at 1770. For all the talk of
holistic and contextual judgments, the racial preferences at issue here in
fact operate like clockwork.
224 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

its head. Their admissions programs “effectively assure[ ]
that race will always be relevant . . . and that the ultimate
goal of eliminating” race as a criterion “will never be
achieved.” Croson, 488 U. S., at 495 (internal quotation
marks omitted).
Respondents' second proffered end point fares no better.
Respondents assert that universities will no longer need to
engage in race-based admissions when, in their absence, stu-
dents nevertheless receive the educational benefts of diver-
sity. But as we have already explained, it is not clear how
a court is supposed to determine when stereotypes have bro-
ken down or “productive citizens and leaders” have been cre-
ated. 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 656. Nor is there any way to
know whether those goals would adequately be met in the
absence of a race-based admissions program. As UNC itself
acknowledges, these “qualitative standard[s]” are “diffcult
to measure.” Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–707, at 78; but see
Page Proof Pending Publication
Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 381 (requiring race-based admissions
programs to operate in a manner that is “sufficiently
measurable”).
Third, respondents suggest that race-based preferences
must be allowed to continue for at least fve more years,
based on the Court's statement in Grutter that it “expect[ed]
that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no
longer be necessary.” 539 U. S., at 343. The 25-year mark
articulated in Grutter, however, refected only that Court's
view that race-based preferences would, by 2028, be unneces-
sary to ensure a requisite level of racial diversity on college
campuses. Ibid. That expectation was oversold. Neither
Harvard nor UNC believes that race-based admissions will
in fact be unnecessary in fve years, and both universities
thus expect to continue using race as a criterion well beyond
the time limit that Grutter suggested. See Tr. of Oral Arg.
in No. 20–1199, at 84–85; Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–707, at
85–86. Indeed, the high school applicants that Harvard and
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 225

Opinion of the Court

UNC will evaluate this fall using their race-based admissions
systems are expected to graduate in 2028—25 years after
Grutter was decided.
Finally, respondents argue that their programs need not
have an end point at all because they frequently review them
to determine whether they remain necessary. See Brief for
Respondent in No. 20–1199, at 52; Brief for University Re-
spondents in No. 21–707, at 58–59. Respondents point
to language in Grutter that, they contend, permits “the du-
rational requirement [to] be met” with “periodic reviews
to determine whether racial preferences are still necessary
to achieve student body diversity.” 539 U. S., at 342.
But Grutter never suggested that periodic review could
make unconstitutional conduct constitutional. To the con-
trary, the Court made clear that race-based admissions
programs eventually had to end—despite whatever perio-
dic review universities conducted. Ibid.; see also supra,
Page Proof Pending Publication
at 209–210.
Here, however, Harvard concedes that its race-based ad-
missions program has no end point. Brief for Respondent
in No. 20–1199, at 52 (Harvard “has not set a sunset date”
for its program (internal quotation marks omitted)). And it
acknowledges that the way it thinks about the use of race in
its admissions process “is the same now as it was” nearly 50
years ago. Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, at 91. UNC's
race-based admissions program is likewise not set to expire
any time soon—nor, indeed, any time at all. The University
admits that it “has not set forth a proposed time period in
which it believes it can end all race-conscious admissions
practices.” 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 612. And UNC suggests
that it might soon use race to a greater extent than it
currently does. See Brief for University Respondents in
No. 21–707, at 57. In short, there is no reason to believe
that respondents will—even acting in good faith—comply
with the Equal Protection Clause any time soon.
226 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

V
The dissenting opinions resist these conclusions. They
would instead uphold respondents' admissions programs
based on their view that the Fourteenth Amendment permits
state actors to remedy the effects of societal discrimination
through explicitly race-based measures. Although both
opinions are thorough and thoughtful in many respects, this
Court has long rejected their core thesis.
The dissents' interpretation of the Equal Protection
Clause is not new. In Bakke, four Justices would have per-
mitted race-based admissions programs to remedy the ef-
fects of societal discrimination. 438 U. S., at 362 ( joint opin-
ion of Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ.,
concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part). But
that minority view was just that—a minority view. Justice
Powell, who provided the ffth vote and controlling opinion in
Bakke, frmly rejected the notion that societal discrimination
Page Proof Pending Publication
constituted a compelling interest. Such an interest presents
“an amorphous concept of injury that may be ageless in its
reach into the past,” he explained. Id., at 307. It cannot
“justify a [racial] classifcation that imposes disadvantages
upon persons . . . who bear no responsibility for whatever
harm the benefciaries of the [race-based] admissions pro-
gram are thought to have suffered.” Id., at 310.
The Court soon adopted Justice Powell's analysis as its
own. In the years after Bakke, the Court repeatedly held
that ameliorating societal discrimination does not constitute
a compelling interest that justifes race-based state action.
“[A]n effort to alleviate the effects of societal discrimination
is not a compelling interest,” we said plainly in Hunt, a 1996
case about the Voting Rights Act. 517 U. S., at 909–910.
We reached the same conclusion in Croson, a case that
concerned a preferential government contracting program.
Permitting “past societal discrimination” to “serve as the
basis for rigid racial preferences would be to open the door
to competing claims for `remedial relief ' for every disadvan-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 227

Opinion of the Court

taged group.” 488 U. S., at 505. Opening that door would
shutter another—“[t]he dream of a Nation of equal citizens
. . . would be lost,” we observed, “in a mosaic of shifting
preferences based on inherently unmeasurable claims of past
wrongs.” Id., at 505–506. “[S]uch a result would be con-
trary to both the letter and spirit of a constitutional provi-
sion whose central command is equality.” Id., at 506.
The dissents here do not acknowledge any of this. They
fail to cite Hunt. They fail to cite Croson. They fail to
mention that the entirety of their analysis of the Equal Pro-
tection Clause—the statistics, the cases, the history—has
been considered and rejected before. There is a reason the
principal dissent must invoke Justice Marshall's partial dis-
sent in Bakke nearly a dozen times while mentioning Justice
Powell's controlling opinion barely once (Justice Jackson's
opinion ignores Justice Powell altogether). For what one
dissent denigrates as “rhetorical fourishes about colorblind-
ness,” post, at 331 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.), are in fact the
Page Proof Pending Publication
proud pronouncements of cases like Loving and Yick Wo, like
Shelley and Bolling—they are defning statements of law.
We understand the dissents want that law to be different.
They are entitled to that desire. But they surely cannot
claim the mantle of stare decisis while pursuing it.8
The dissents are no more faithful to our precedent on race-
based admissions. To hear the principal dissent tell it,
Grutter blessed such programs indefnitely, until “racial in-

8
Perhaps recognizing as much, the principal dissent at one point at-
tempts to press a different remedial rationale altogether, stating that both
respondents “have sordid legacies of racial exclusion.” Post, at 337 (opin-
ion of Sotomayor, J.). Such institutions should perhaps be the very last
ones to be allowed to make race-based decisions, let alone be accorded
deference in doing so. In any event, neither university defends its admis-
sions system as a remedy for past discrimination—their own or anyone
else's. See Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–707, at 90 (“[W]e're not pursuing
any sort of remedial justifcation for our policy.”). Nor has any decision
of ours permitted a remedial justifcation for race-based college admis-
sions. Cf. Bakke, 438 U. S., at 307 (opinion of Powell, J.).
228 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

equality will end.” Post, at 370 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).
But Grutter did no such thing. It emphasized—not once or
twice, but at least six separate times—that race-based ad-
missions programs “must have reasonable durational limits”
and that their “deviation from the norm of equal treatment”
must be “a temporary matter.” 539 U. S., at 342. The
Court also disclaimed “[e]nshrining a permanent justifcation
for racial preferences.” Ibid. Yet the justifcation for race-
based admissions that the dissent latches on to is just
that—unceasing.
The principal dissent's reliance on Fisher II is similarly
mistaken. There, by a 4-to-3 vote, the Court upheld a “sui
generis” race-based admissions program used by the Univer-
sity of Texas, 579 U. S., at 377, whose “goal” it was to enroll
a “critical mass” of certain minority students, Fisher I, 570
U. S., at 301. But neither Harvard nor UNC claims to be
using the critical mass concept—indeed, the universities
Page Proof Pending Publication
admit they do not even know what it means. See 1 App.
in No. 21–707, at 402 (“[N]o one has directed anybody to
achieve a critical mass, and I'm not even sure we would know
what it is.” (testimony of UNC administrator)); 3 App. in
No. 20–1199, at 1137–1138 (similar testimony from Harvard
administrator).
Fisher II also recognized the “enduring challenge” that
race-based admissions systems place on “the constitutional
promise of equal treatment.” 579 U. S., at 388. The Court
thus reaffrmed the “continuing obligation” of universities
“to satisfy the burden of strict scrutiny.” Id., at 379. To
drive the point home, Fisher II limited itself just as Grutter
had—in duration. The Court stressed that its decision did
“not necessarily mean the University may rely on that same
policy” going forward. 579 U. S., at 388 (emphasis added);
see also Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 313 (recognizing that “Grutter
. . . approved the plan at issue upon concluding that it . . .
was limited in time”). And the Court openly acknowledged
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 229

Opinion of the Court

that its decision offered limited “prospective guidance.”
Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 379.9
The principal dissent wrenches our case law from its con-
text, going to lengths to ignore the parts of that law it does
not like. The serious reservations that Bakke, Grutter, and
Fisher had about racial preferences go unrecognized. The
unambiguous requirements of the Equal Protection Clause—
“the most rigid,” “searching” scrutiny it entails—go without
note. Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 310. And the repeated de-
mands that race-based admissions programs must end go
overlooked—contorted, worse still, into a demand that such
programs never stop.
Most troubling of all is what the dissent defends by mak-
ing these omissions: a judiciary that picks winners and losers
based on the color of their skin. While the dissent would
certainly not permit university programs that discriminated
against black and Latino applicants, it is perfectly willing to
Page Proof Pending Publication
let the programs here continue. In its view, this Court is
supposed to tell state actors when they have picked the right
races to beneft. Separate but equal is “inherently un-
equal,” said Brown. 347 U. S., at 495 (emphasis added). It
depends, says the dissent.

9
The principal dissent rebukes the Court for not considering adequately
the reliance interests respondents and other universities had in Grutter.
But as we have explained, Grutter itself limited the reliance that could be
placed upon it by insisting, over and over again, that race-based admis-
sions programs be limited in time. See supra, at 212. Grutter indeed
went so far as to suggest a specifc period of reliance—25 years—preclud-
ing the indefnite reliance interests that the dissent articulates. Cf. post,
at 312–313 (Kavanaugh, J., concurring). Those interests are, moreover,
vastly overstated on their own terms. Three out of every fve American
universities do not consider race in their admissions decisions. See Brief
for Respondent in No. 20–1199, p. 40. And several States—including
some of the most populous (California, Florida, and Michigan)—have pro-
hibited race-based admissions outright. See Brief for Oklahoma et al. as
Amici Curiae 9, n. 6.
230 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Opinion of the Court

That is a remarkable view of the judicial role—remarkably
wrong. Lost in the false pretense of judicial humility that
the dissent espouses is a claim to power so radical, so de-
structive, that it required a Second Founding to undo. “Jus-
tice Harlan knew better,” one of the dissents decrees. Post,
at 388 (opinion of Jackson, J.). Indeed he did:
“[I]n view of the Constitution, in the eye of the law,
there is in this country no superior, dominant, ruling
class of citizens. There is no caste here. Our Constitu-
tion is color-blind, and neither knows nor tolerates
classes among citizens.” Plessy, 163 U. S., at 559 (Har-
lan, J., dissenting).
VI
For the reasons provided above, the Harvard and UNC
admissions programs cannot be reconciled with the guaran-
tees of the Equal Protection Clause. Both programs lack
suffciently focused and measurable objectives warranting
Page Proof Pending Publication
the use of race, unavoidably employ race in a negative man-
ner, involve racial stereotyping, and lack meaningful end
points. We have never permitted admissions programs to
work in that way, and we will not do so today.
At the same time, as all parties agree, nothing in this opin-
ion should be construed as prohibiting universities from con-
sidering an applicant's discussion of how race affected his or
her life, be it through discrimination, inspiration, or other-
wise. See, e. g., 4 App. in No. 21–707, at 1725–1726, 1741
(under seal); Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. Univer-
sity of N. C. at Chapel Hill, No. 1:14–cv–954 (MDNC, Feb.
5, 2021), ECF Doc. 246, pp. 14–15, ¶¶25–26 (summarizing
sealed material); Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, at 10. But,
despite the dissent's assertion to the contrary, universities
may not simply establish through application essays or other
means the regime we hold unlawful today. (A dissenting
opinion is generally not the best source of legal advice on
how to comply with the majority opinion.) “[W]hat cannot
be done directly cannot be done indirectly. The Constitu-
tion deals with substance, not shadows,” and the prohibition
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 231

Thomas, J., concurring

against racial discrimination is “levelled at the thing, not the
name.”Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 325 (1867). A
beneft to a student who overcame racial discrimination, for
example, must be tied to that student's courage and determi-
nation. Or a beneft to a student whose heritage or culture
motivated him or her to assume a leadership role or attain a
particular goal must be tied to that student's unique ability
to contribute to the university. In other words, the student
must be treated based on his or her experiences as an indi-
vidual—not on the basis of race.
Many universities have for too long done just the oppo-
site. And in doing so, they have concluded, wrongly, that
the touchstone of an individual's identity is not challenges
bested, skills built, or lessons learned but the color of their
skin. Our constitutional history does not tolerate that choice.
The judgments of the Court of Appeals for the First Cir-
cuit and of the District Court for the Middle District of
North Carolina are reversed.
Page Proof Pending Publication It is so ordered.

Justice Jackson took no part in the consideration or deci-
sion of the case in No. 20–1199.

Justice Thomas, concurring.
In the wake of the Civil War, the country focused its atten-
tion on restoring the Union and establishing the legal status
of newly freed slaves. The Constitution was amended to
abolish slavery and proclaim that all persons born in the
United States are citizens, entitled to the privileges or im-
munities of citizenship and the equal protection of the laws.
Amdts. 13, 14. Because of that second founding, “[o]ur Con-
stitution is color-blind, and neither knows nor tolerates
classes among citizens.” Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537,
559 (1896) (Harlan, J., dissenting).
This Court's commitment to that equality principle has
ebbed and fowed over time. After forsaking the principle
for decades, offering a judicial imprimatur to segregation
232 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

and ushering in the Jim Crow era, the Court fnally cor-
rected course in Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483
(1954), announcing that primary schools must either desegre-
gate with all deliberate speed or else close their doors. See
also Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U. S. 294 (1955)
(Brown II). It then pulled back in Grutter v. Bollinger, 539
U. S. 306 (2003), permitting universities to discriminate
based on race in their admissions process (though only tem-
porarily) in order to achieve alleged “educational benefts of
diversity.” Id., at 319. Yet, the Constitution continues to
embody a simple truth: Two discriminatory wrongs cannot
make a right.
I wrote separately in Grutter, explaining that the use of
race in higher education admissions decisions—regardless of
whether intended to help or to hurt—violates the Four-
teenth Amendment. Id., at 351 (opinion concurring in part
and dissenting in part). In the decades since, I have repeat-
edly stated that Grutter was wrongly decided and should be
Page Proof Pending Publication
overruled. Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin, 570 U. S.
297, 315, 328 (2013) (Fisher I) (concurring opinion); Fisher v.
University of Tex. at Austin, 579 U. S. 365, 389 (2016) (dis-
senting opinion). Today, and despite a lengthy interregnum,
the Constitution prevails.
Because the Court today applies genuine strict scrutiny to
the race-conscious admissions policies employed at Harvard
and the University of North Carolina (UNC) and fnds that
they fail that searching review, I join the majority opinion
in full. I write separately to offer an originalist defense of
the colorblind Constitution; to explain further the faws of
the Court's Grutter jurisprudence; to clarify that all forms of
discrimination based on race—including so-called affrmative
action—are prohibited under the Constitution; and to empha-
size the pernicious effects of all such discrimination.

I
In the 1860s, Congress proposed and the States ratifed
the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments. And, with
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 233

Thomas, J., concurring

the authority conferred by these Amendments, Congress
passed two landmark Civil Rights Acts. Throughout the de-
bates on each of these measures, their proponents repeatedly
affrmed their view of equal citizenship and the racial equal-
ity that fows from it. In fact, they held this principle so
deeply that their crowning accomplishment—the Fourteenth
Amendment—ensures racial equality with no textual refer-
ence to race whatsoever. The history of these measures' en-
actment renders their motivating principle as clear as their
text: All citizens of the United States, regardless of skin
color, are equal before the law.
I do not contend that all of the individuals who put forth
and ratifed the Fourteenth Amendment universally believed
this to be true. Some Members of the proposing Congress,
for example, opposed the Amendment. And, the historical
record—particularly with respect to the debates on ratifca-
tion in the States—is sparse. Nonetheless, substantial evi-
dence suggests that the Fourteenth Amendment was passed
Page Proof Pending Publication
to “establis[h] the broad constitutional principle of full and
complete equality of all persons under the law,” forbidding
“all legal distinctions based on race or color.” Supp. Brief
for United States on Reargument in Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation, O. T. 1953, No. 1 etc., p. 115 (U. S. Brown Reargu-
ment Brief).
This was Justice Harlan's view in his lone dissent in
Plessy, where he observed that “[o]ur Constitution is color-
blind.” 163 U. S., at 559. It was the view of the Court in
Brown, which rejected “ `any authority . . . to use race as
a factor in affording educational opportunities.' ” Parents
Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School Dist.
No. 1, 551 U. S. 701, 747 (2007). And, it is the view adopted
in the Court's opinion today, requiring “the absolute equality
of all citizens” under the law. Ante, at 201 (internal quota-
tion marks omitted).
A
In its 1864 election platform, the Republican Party
pledged to amend the Constitution to accomplish the “utter
234 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

and complete extirpation” of slavery from “the soil of the
Republic.” 2 A. Schlesinger, History of U. S. Political Par-
ties 1860–1910, p. 1303 (1973). After their landslide victory,
Republicans quickly moved to make good on that promise.
Congress proposed what would become the Thirteenth
Amendment to the States in January 1865, and it was ratifed
as part of the Constitution later that year. The new Amend-
ment stated that “[n]either slavery nor involuntary servitude
. . . shall exist” in the United States “except as a punishment
for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted.”
§ 1. It thus not only prohibited States from themselves en-
slaving persons, but also obligated them to end enslavement
by private individuals within their borders. Its Framers
viewed the text broadly, arguing that it “allowed Congress
to legislate not merely against slavery itself, but against all
the badges and relics of a slave system.” A. Amar, Ameri-
ca's Constitution: A Biography 362 (2005) (internal quotation
Page Proof Pending Publication
marks omitted). The Amendment also authorized “Con-
gress . . . to enforce” its terms “by appropriate legislation”—
authority not granted in any prior Amendment. § 2. Pro-
ponents believed this enforcement clause permitted legisla-
tive measures designed to accomplish the Amendment's
broader goal of equality for the freedmen.
It quickly became clear, however, that further amendment
would be necessary to safeguard that goal. Soon after the
Thirteenth Amendment's adoption, the reconstructed South-
ern States began to enact “Black Codes,” which circum-
scribed the newly won freedoms of blacks. The Black Code
of Mississippi, for example, “imposed all sorts of disabilities”
on blacks, “including limiting their freedom of movement and
barring them from following certain occupations, owning
frearms, serving on juries, testifying in cases involving
whites, or voting.” E. Foner, The Second Founding 48
(2019).
Congress responded with the landmark Civil Rights Act
of 1866, 14 Stat. 27, in an attempt to pre-empt the Black
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 235

Thomas, J., concurring

Codes. The 1866 Act promised such a sweeping form of
equality that it would lead many to say that it exceeded the
scope of Congress' authority under the Thirteenth Amend-
ment. As enacted, it stated:
“Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives of the United States of America in Congress
assembled, That all persons born in the United States
and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians
not taxed, are hereby declared to be citizens of the
United States; and such citizens, of every race and color,
without regard to any previous condition of slavery or
involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime
whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall
have the same right, in every State and Territory in the
United States, to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be
parties, and give evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease,
sell, hold, and convey real and personal property, and
Page Proof Pending Publication
to full and equal beneft of all laws and proceedings for
the security of person and property, as is enjoyed by
white citizens, and shall be subject to like punishment,
pains, and penalties, and to none other, any law, stat-
ute, ordinance, regulation, or custom, to the contrary
notwithstanding.”

The text of the provision left no doubt as to its aim: All
persons born in the United States were equal citizens enti-
tled to the same rights and subject to the same penalties as
white citizens in the categories enumerated. See M. Mc-
Connell, Originalism and the Desegregation Decisions, 81 Va.
L. Rev. 947, 958 (1995) (“Note that the bill neither forbade
racial discrimination generally nor did it guarantee particu-
lar rights to all persons. Rather, it required an equality in
certain specifc rights”). And, while the 1866 Act used the
rights of “white citizens” as a benchmark, its rule was decid-
edly colorblind, safeguarding legal equality for all citizens
“of every race and color” and providing the same rights to all.
236 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

The 1866 Act's evolution further highlights its rule of
equality. To start, Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393
(1857), had previously held that blacks “were not regarded
as a portion of the people or citizens of the Government” and
“had no rights which the white man was bound to respect.”
Id., at 407, 411. The Act, however, would effectively over-
rule Dred Scott and ensure the equality that had been prom-
ised to blacks. But the Act went further still. On Janu-
ary 29, 1866, Senator Lyman Trumbull, the bill's principal
sponsor in the Senate, proposed text stating that “all persons
of African descent born in the United States are hereby de-
clared to be citizens.” Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess.,
474. The following day, Trumbull revised his proposal, re-
moving the reference to “African descent” and declaring
more broadly that “all persons born in the United States,
and not subject to any foreign Power,” are “citizens of the
United States.” Id., at 498.
“In the years before the Fourteenth Amendment's adop-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tion, jurists and legislators often connected citizenship with
equality,” where “the absence or presence of one entailed the
absence or presence of the other.” United States v. Vaello
Madero, 596 U. S. –––, ––– (2022) (Thomas, J., concurring).
The addition of a citizenship guarantee thus evidenced an
intent to broaden the provision, extending beyond recently
freed blacks and incorporating a more general view of equal-
ity for all Americans. Indeed, the drafters later included a
specifc carveout for “Indians not taxed,” demonstrating the
breadth of the bill's otherwise general citizenship language.
14 Stat. 27.1 As Trumbull explained, the provision created
a bond between all Americans; “any statute which is not
equal to all, and which deprives any citizen of civil rights
which are secured to other citizens,” was “an unjust en-
croachment upon his liberty” and a “badge of servitude” pro-
1
In fact, Indians would not be considered citizens until several decades
later. Indian Citizenship Act of 1924, ch. 233, 43 Stat. 253 (declaring that
all Indians born in the United States are citizens).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 237

Thomas, J., concurring

hibited by the Constitution. Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st
Sess., at 474 (emphasis added).
Trumbull and most of the Act's other supporters identifed
the Thirteenth Amendment as a principal source of constitu-
tional authority for the Act's nondiscrimination provisions.
See, e. g., id., at 475 (statement of Sen. Trumbull); id., at 1152
(statement of Rep. Thayer); id., at 503–504 (statement of Sen.
Howard). In particular, they explained that the Thirteenth
Amendment allowed Congress not merely to legislate
against slavery itself, but also to counter measures “which
depriv[e] any citizen of civil rights which are secured to other
citizens.” Id., at 474.
But opponents argued that Congress' authority did not
sweep so broadly. President Andrew Johnson, for example,
contended that Congress lacked authority to pass the meas-
ure, seizing on the breadth of the citizenship text and empha-
sizing state authority over matters of state citizenship. See
S. Doc. No. 31, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 1, 6 (1866) (Johnson veto
Page Proof Pending Publication
message). Consequently, “doubts about the constitutional
authority conferred by that measure led supporters to sup-
plement their Thirteenth Amendment arguments with other
sources of constitutional authority.” R. Williams, Original-
ism and the Other Desegregation Decision, 99 Va. L. Rev.
493, 532–533 (2013) (describing appeals to the naturalization
power and the inherent power to protect the rights of citi-
zens). As debates continued, it became increasingly appar-
ent that safeguarding the 1866 Act, including its promise of
black citizenship and the equal rights that citizenship en-
tailed, would require further submission to the people of the
United States in the form of a proposed constitutional
amendment. See, e. g., Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess.,
at 498 (statement of Sen. Van Winkle).

B
Critically, many of those who believed that Congress
lacked the authority to enact the 1866 Act also supported the
238 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

principle of racial equality. So, almost immediately follow-
ing the ratifcation of the Thirteenth Amendment, several
proposals for further amendments were submitted in Con-
gress. One such proposal, approved by the Joint Committee
on Reconstruction and then submitted to the House of Rep-
resentatives on February 26, 1866, would have declared that
“[t]he Congress shall have power to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper to secure to the citizens of
each State all privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States, and to all persons in the several States equal
protection in the rights of life, liberty, and property.” Id., at
1033–1034. Representative John Bingham, its drafter, was
among those who believed Congress lacked the power to
enact the 1866 Act. See id., at 1291. Specifcally, he be-
lieved the “very letter of the Constitution” already required
equality, but the enforcement of that requirement “is of the
reserved powers of the States.” Id., at 1034, 1291 (state-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ment of Rep. Bingham). His proposed constitutional
amendment accordingly would provide a clear constitutional
basis for the 1866 Act and ensure that future Congresses
would be unable to repeal it. See W. Nelson, The Four-
teenth Amendment 48–49 (1988).
Discussion of Bingham's initial draft was later postponed
in the House, but the Joint Committee on Reconstruction
continued its work. See 2 K. Lash, The Reconstruction
Amendments 8 (2021). In April, Representative Thaddeus
Stevens proposed to the Joint Committee an amendment that
began, “[n]o discrimination shall be made by any State nor
by the United States as to the civil rights of persons because
of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.” S. Doc.
No. 711, 63d Cong., 1st Sess., 31–32 (1915) (reprinting the
Journal of the Joint Committee on Reconstruction for the
Thirty-Ninth Congress). Stevens' proposal was later re-
vised to read as follows: “ `No State shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 239

Thomas, J., concurring

person of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws.' ” Id., at 39. This revised text was
submitted to the full House on April 30, 1866. Cong. Globe,
39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 2286–2287. Like the eventual frst
section of the Fourteenth Amendment, this proposal em-
bodied the familiar Privileges or Immunities, Due Process,
and Equal Protection Clauses. And, importantly, it also
featured an enforcement clause—with text borrowed from
the Thirteenth Amendment—conferring upon Congress the
power to enforce its provisions. Ibid.
Stevens explained that the draft was intended to “allo[w]
Congress to correct the unjust legislation of the States, so
far that the law which operates upon one man shall operate
equally upon all.” Id., at 2459. Moreover, Stevens' later
statements indicate that he did not believe there was a dif-
ference “in substance between the new proposal and” earlier
Page Proof Pending Publication
measures calling for impartial and equal treatment without
regard to race. U. S. Brown Reargument Brief 44 (noting a
distinction only with respect to a suffrage provision). And,
Bingham argued that the need for the proposed text was
“one of the lessons that have been taught . . . by the history
of the past four years of terrifc confict” during the Civil
War. Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 2542. The pro-
posal passed the House by a vote of 128 to 37. Id., at 2545.
Senator Jacob Howard introduced the proposed Amend-
ment in the Senate, powerfully asking, “Ought not the time
to be now passed when one measure of justice is to be meted
out to a member of one caste while another and a different
measure is meted out to the member of another caste, both
castes being alike citizens of the United States, both bound
to obey the same laws, to sustain the burdens of the same
Government, and both equally responsible to justice and to
God for the deeds done in the body?” Id., at 2766. In keep-
ing with this view, he proposed an introductory sentence,
declaring that “ `[a]ll persons born in the United States and
240 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

subject to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United
States and of the States wherein they reside.' ” Id., at 2869.
This text, the Citizenship Clause, was the fnal missing ele-
ment of what would ultimately become § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Howard's draft for the proposed citizenship
text was modeled on the Civil Rights Act of 1866's text, and
he suggested the alternative language to “remov[e] all doubt
as to what persons are or are not citizens of the United
States,” a question which had “long been a great desidera-
tum in the jurisprudence and legislation of this country.”
Id., at 2890. He further characterized the addition as “sim-
ply declaratory of what I regard as the law of the land al-
ready.” Ibid.
The proposal was approved in the Senate by a vote of 33
to 11. Id., at 3042. The House then reconciled differences
between the two measures, approving the Senate's changes
by a vote of 120 to 32. See id., at 3149. And, in June 1866,
the amendment was submitted to the States for their consid-
Page Proof Pending Publication
eration and ratifcation. Two years later, it was ratifed by
the requisite number of States and became the Fourteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution. See 15 Stat.
706–707; id., at 709–711. Its opening words instilled in our
Nation's Constitution a new birth of freedom:
“All persons born or naturalized in the United States,
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and of the State wherein they reside. No
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal pro-
tection of the laws.” § 1.

As enacted, the text of the Fourteenth Amendment pro-
vides a frm statement of equality before the law. It begins
by guaranteeing citizenship status, invoking the “longstand-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 241

Thomas, J., concurring

ing political and legal tradition that closely associated the
status of citizenship with the entitlement to legal equality.”
Vaello Madero, 596 U. S., at ––– (Thomas, J., concurring) (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted). It then confrms that
States may not “abridge the rights of national citizenship,
including whatever civil equality is guaranteed to `citizens'
under the Citizenship Clause.” Id., at –––, n. 3. Finally, it
pledges that even noncitizens must be treated equally “as
individuals, and not as members of racial, ethnic, or religious
groups.” Missouri v. Jenkins, 515 U. S. 70, 120–121 (1995)
(Thomas, J., concurring).
The drafters and ratifers of the Fourteenth Amendment
focused on this broad equality idea, offering surprisingly lit-
tle explanation of which term was intended to accomplish
which part of the Amendment's overall goal. “The available
materials . . . show,” however, “that there were widespread
expressions of a general understanding of the broad scope of
Page Proof Pending Publication
the Amendment similar to that abundantly demonstrated in
the Congressional debates, namely, that the frst section of
the Amendment would establish the full constitutional right
of all persons to equality before the law and would prohibit
legal distinctions based on race or color.” U. S. Brown Re-
argument Brief 65 (citation omitted). For example, the
Pennsylvania debate suggests that the Fourteenth Amend-
ment was understood to make the law “what justice is repre-
sented to be, blind” to the “color of [one's] skin.” App. to
Pa. Leg. Record XLVIII (1867) (Rep. Mann).
The most commonly held view today—consistent with the
rationale repeatedly invoked during the congressional de-
bates, see, e. g., Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 2458–
2469—is that the Amendment was designed to remove any
doubts regarding Congress' authority to enact the Civil
Rights Act of 1866 and to establish a nondiscrimination rule
that could not be repealed by future Congresses. See, e. g.,
J. Harrison, Reconstructing the Privileges or Immunities
Clause, 101 Yale L. J. 1385, 1388 (1992) (noting that the “pri-
242 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

mary purpose” of the Fourteenth Amendment “was to man-
date certain rules of racial equality, especially those con-
tained in Section 1 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866”).2 The
Amendment's phrasing supports this view, and there does
not appear to have been any argument to the contrary pre-
dating Brown.
Consistent with the Civil Rights Act of 1866's aim, the
Amendment defnitively overruled Chief Justice Taney's
opinion in Dred Scott that blacks “were not regarded as a
portion of the people or citizens of the Government” and
“had no rights which the white man was bound to respect.”
19 How., at 407, 411. And, like the 1866 Act, the Amend-
ment also clarified that American citizenship conferred
rights not just against the Federal Government but also the
government of the citizen's State of residence. Unlike the
Civil Rights Act, however, the Amendment employed a
wholly race-neutral text, extending privileges or immunities
Page Proof Pending Publication
to all “citizens”—even if its practical effect was to provide
all citizens with the same privileges then enjoyed by whites.
That citizenship guarantee was often linked with the concept
of equality. Vaello Madero, 596 U. S., at ––– (Thomas, J.,
concurring). Combining the citizenship guarantee with the
Privileges or Immunities Clause and the Equal Protection
Clause, the Fourteenth Amendment ensures protection for
all equal citizens of the Nation without regard to race. Put
succinctly, “[o]ur Constitution is color-blind.” Plessy, 163
U. S., at 559 (Harlan, J., dissenting).

2
There is “some support” in the history of enactment for at least “four
interpretations of the frst section of the proposed amendment, and in
particular of its Privileges [or] Immunities Clause: it would authorize Con-
gress to enforce the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV; it
would forbid discrimination between citizens with respect to fundamental
rights; it would establish a set of basic rights that all citizens must enjoy;
and it would make the Bill of Rights applicable to the states.” D. Currie,
The Reconstruction Congress, 75 U. Chi. L. Rev. 383, 406 (2008) (citing
sources). Notably, those four interpretations are all colorblind.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 243

Thomas, J., concurring

C
In the period closely following the Fourteenth Amend-
ment's ratifcation, Congress passed several statutes de-
signed to enforce its terms, eliminating government-based
Black Codes—systems of government-imposed segrega-
tion—and criminalizing racially motivated violence. The
marquee legislation was the Civil Rights Act of 1875, ch. 114,
18 Stat. 335–337, and the justifcations offered by proponents
of that measure are further evidence for the colorblind view
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Civil Rights Act of 1875 sought to counteract the sys-
tems of racial segregation that had arisen in the wake of the
Reconstruction era. Advocates of so-called separate-but-
equal systems, which allowed segregated facilities for blacks
and whites, had argued that laws permitting or requiring
such segregation treated members of both races precisely
alike: Blacks could not attend a white school, but symmetri-
Page Proof Pending Publication
cally, whites could not attend a black school. See Plessy,
163 U. S., at 544 (arguing that, in light of the social circum-
stances at the time, racial segregation did not “necessarily
imply the inferiority of either race to the other”). Congress
was not persuaded. Supporters of the soon-to-be 1875 Act
successfully countered that symmetrical restrictions did not
constitute equality, and they did so on colorblind terms.
For example, they asserted that “free government de-
mands the abolition of all distinctions founded on color and
race.” 2 Cong. Rec. 4083 (1874). And, they submitted that
“[t]he time has come when all distinctions that grew out of
slavery ought to disappear.” Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 2d
Sess., 3193 (1872) (“[A]s long as you have distinctions and
discriminations between white and black in the enjoyment
of legal rights and privileges[,] you will have discontent and
parties divided between black and white”). Leading Repub-
lican Senator Charles Sumner compellingly argued that “any
rule excluding a man on account of his color is an indignity,
an insult, and a wrong.” Id., at 242; see also ibid. (“I insist
244 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

that by the law of the land all persons without distinction of
color shall be equal before the law”). Far from conceding
that segregation would be perceived as inoffensive if race
roles were reversed, he declared that “[t]his is plain oppres-
sion, which you . . . would feel keenly were it directed against
you or your child.” Id., at 384. He went on to paraphrase
the English common-law rule to which he subscribed: “[The
law] makes no discrimination on account of color.” Id.,
at 385.
Others echoed this view. Representative John Lynch de-
clared that “[t]he duty of the law-maker is to know no race,
no color, no religion, no nationality, except to prevent distinc-
tions on any of these grounds, so far as the law is concerned.”
3 Cong. Rec. 945 (1875). Senator John Sherman believed
that the route to peace was to “[w]ipe out all legal discrimi-
nations between white and black [and] make no distinction
between black and white.” Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 2d
Sess., at 3193. And, Senator Henry Wilson sought to “make
Page Proof Pending Publication
illegal all distinctions on account of color” because “there
should be no distinction recognized by the laws of the land.”
Id., at 819; see also 3 Cong. Rec., at 956 (statement of Rep.
Cain) (“[M]en [are] formed of God equally . . . . The civil-
rights bill simply declares this: that there shall be no dis-
criminations between citizens of this land so far as the laws
of the land are concerned”). The view of the Legislature
was clear: The Constitution “neither knows nor tolerates
classes among citizens.” Plessy, 163 U. S., at 559 (Har-
lan, J., dissenting).
D
The earliest Supreme Court opinions to interpret the
Fourteenth Amendment did so in colorblind terms. Their
statements characterizing the Amendment evidence its com-
mitment to equal rights for all citizens, regardless of the
color of their skin. See ante, at 202.
In the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36 (1873), the
Court identifed the “pervading purpose” of the Reconstruc-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 245

Thomas, J., concurring

tion Amendments as “the freedom of the slave race, the secu-
rity and frm establishment of that freedom, and the pro-
tection of the newly-made freeman and citizen from the
oppressions of those who had formerly exercised unlimited
dominion over him.” Id., at 67–72. Yet, the Court quickly
acknowledged that the language of the Amendments did not
suggest “that no one else but the negro can share in this
protection.” Id., at 72. Rather, “[i]f Mexican peonage or
the Chinese coolie labor system shall develop slavery of the
Mexican or Chinese race within our territory, [the Thir-
teenth Amendment] may safely be trusted to make it void.”
Ibid. And, similarly, “if other rights are assailed by the
States which properly and necessarily fall within the protec-
tion of these articles, that protection will apply, though the
party interested may not be of African descent.” Ibid.
The Court thus made clear that the Fourteenth Amend-
ment's equality guarantee applied to members of all races,
Page Proof Pending Publication
including Asian Americans, ensuring all citizens equal treat-
ment under law.
Seven years later, the Court relied on the Slaughter-
House view to conclude that “[t]he words of the [Fourteenth
A]mendment . . . contain a necessary implication of a positive
immunity, or right, most valuable to the colored race,—the
right to exemption from unfriendly legislation against them
distinctively as colored.” Strauder v. West Virginia, 100
U. S. 303, 307–308 (1880). The Court thus found that the
Fourteenth Amendment banned “expres[s]” racial classifca-
tions, no matter the race affected, because these classifca-
tions are “a stimulant to . . . race prejudice.” Id., at 308.
See also ante, at 202. Similar statements appeared in
other cases decided around that time. See Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 318 (1880) (“The plain object of these
statutes [enacted to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment], as
of the Constitution which authorized them, was to place the
colored race, in respect of civil rights, upon a level with
whites. They made the rights and responsibilities, civil and
246 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

criminal, of the two races exactly the same”); Ex parte Vir-
ginia, 100 U. S. 339, 344–345 (1880) (“One great purpose of
[the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments] was to raise
the colored race from that condition of inferiority and servi-
tude in which most of them had previously stood, into perfect
equality of civil rights with all other persons within the ju-
risdiction of the States”).
This Court's view of the Fourteenth Amendment reached
its nadir in Plessy, infamously concluding that the Four-
teenth Amendment “could not have been intended to abolish
distinctions based upon color, or to enforce social, as distin-
guished from political equality, or a commingling of the two
races upon terms unsatisfactory to either.” 163 U. S., at 544.
That holding stood in sharp contrast to the Court's earlier
embrace of the Fourteenth Amendment's equality ideal, as
Justice Harlan emphasized in dissent: The Reconstruction
Amendments had aimed to remove “the race line from our
systems of governments.” Id., at 563. For Justice Harlan,
Page Proof Pending Publication
the Constitution was colorblind and categorically rejected
laws designed to protect “a dominant race—a superior class
of citizens,” while imposing a “badge of servitude” on others.
Id., at 560–562.
History has vindicated Justice Harlan's view, and this
Court recently acknowledged that Plessy should have been
overruled immediately because it “betrayed our commitment
to `equality before the law.' ” Dobbs v. Jackson Women's
Health Organization, 597 U. S. –––, ––– (2022). Nonethe-
less, and despite Justice Harlan's efforts, the era of state-
sanctioned segregation persisted for more than a half
century.
E
Despite the extensive evidence favoring the colorblind
view, as detailed above, it appears increasingly in vogue to
embrace an “antisubordination” view of the Fourteenth
Amendment: that the Amendment forbids only laws that
hurt, but not help, blacks. Such a theory lacks any basis in
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 247

Thomas, J., concurring

the original meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Re-
spondents cite a smattering of federal and state statutes
passed during the years surrounding the ratifcation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. And, Justice Sotomayor's dis-
sent argues that several of these statutes evidence the rati-
fers' understanding that the Equal Protection Clause “per-
mits consideration of race to achieve its goal.” Post, at 322.
Upon examination, however, it is clear that these statutes
are fully consistent with the colorblind view.
Start with the 1865 Freedmen's Bureau Act. That Act
established the Freedmen's Bureau to issue “provisions,
clothing, and fuel . . . needful for the immediate and tempo-
rary shelter and supply of destitute and suffering refugees
and freedmen and their wives and children” and the setting
“apart, for the use of loyal refugees and freedmen,” aban-
doned, confscated, or purchased lands, and assigning “to
every male citizen, whether refugee or freedman, . . . not
Page Proof Pending Publication
more than forty acres of such land.” Ch. 90, §§ 2, 4, 13 Stat.
507. The 1866 Freedmen's Bureau Act then expanded upon
the prior year's law, authorizing the Bureau to care for all
loyal refugees and freedmen. Ch. 200, 14 Stat. 173–174.
Importantly, however, the Acts applied to freedmen (and ref-
ugees), a formally race-neutral category, not blacks writ
large. And, because “not all blacks in the United States
were former slaves,” “ `freedman' ” was a decidedly under-
inclusive proxy for race. M. Rappaport, Originalism and the
Colorblind Constitution, 89 Notre Dame L. Rev. 71, 98 (2013)
(Rappaport). Moreover, the Freedmen's Bureau served
newly freed slaves alongside white refugees. P. Moreno,
Racial Classifcations and Reconstruction Legislation, 61 J.
So. Hist. 271, 276–277 (1995); R. Barnett & E. Bernick, The
Original Meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment 119 (2021).
And, advocates of the law explicitly disclaimed any view
rooted in modern conceptions of antisubordination. To the
contrary, they explicitly clarifed that the equality sought by
the law was not one in which all men shall be “six feet high”;
248 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

rather, it strove to ensure that freedmen enjoy “equal rights
before the law” such that “each man shall have the right to
pursue in his own way life, liberty, and happiness.” Cong.
Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 322, 342.
Several additional federal laws cited by respondents ap-
pear to classify based on race, rather than previous condition
of servitude. For example, an 1866 law adopted special
rules and procedures for the payment of “colored” service-
men in the Union Army to agents who helped them secure
bounties, pensions, and other payments that they were due.
14 Stat. 367–368. At the time, however, Congress believed
that many “black servicemen were signifcantly overpaying
for these agents' services in part because [the servicemen]
did not understand how the payment system operated.”
Rappaport 110; see also S. Siegel, The Federal Government's
Power To Enact Color-Conscious Laws: An Originalist In-
quiry, 92 Nw. U. L. Rev. 477, 561 (1998). Thus, while this
Page Proof Pending Publication
legislation appears to have provided a discrete race-based
beneft, its aim—to prohibit race-based exploitation—may
not have been possible at the time without using a racial
screen. In other words, the statute's racial classifcations
may well have survived strict scrutiny. See Rappaport 111–
112. Another law, passed in 1867, provided funds for “freed-
men or destitute colored people” in the District of Columbia.
Res. of Mar. 16, 1867, No. 4, 15 Stat. 20. However, when a
prior version of this law targeting only blacks was criticized
for being racially discriminatory, “it was defended on the
grounds that there were various places in the city where
former slaves . . . lived in densely populated shantytowns.”
Rappaport 104–105 (citing Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess.,
at 1507). Congress thus may have enacted the measure not
because of race, but rather to address a special problem in
shantytowns in the District where blacks lived.
These laws—even if targeting race as such—likely were
also constitutionally permissible examples of Government ac-
tion “undo[ing] the effects of past discrimination in [a way]
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 249

Thomas, J., concurring

that do[es] not involve classifcation by race,” even though
they had a “racially disproportionate impact.” Richmond v.
J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469, 526 (1989) (Scalia, J., concur-
ring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted). The
government can plainly remedy a race-based injury that it
has inficted—though such remedies must be meant to fur-
ther a colorblind government, not perpetuate racial con-
sciousness. See id., at 505 (majority opinion). In that way,
“[r]ace-based government measures during the 1860's and
1870's to remedy state-enforced slavery were . . . not in-
consistent with the colorblind Constitution.” Parents In-
volved, 551 U. S., at 772, n. 19 (Thomas, J., concurring).
Moreover, the very same Congress passed both these laws
and the unambiguously worded Civil Rights Act of 1866 that
clearly prohibited discrimination on the basis of race.3 And,
as noted above, the proponents of these laws explicitly
sought equal rights without regard to race while disavowing
any antisubordination view.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Justice Sotomayor argues otherwise, pointing to “a
number of race-conscious” federal laws passed around the
time of the Fourteenth Amendment's enactment. Post, at
322 (dissenting opinion). She identifes the Freedmen's Bu-
reau Act of 1865, already discussed above, as one such law,
but she admits that the programs did not beneft blacks ex-
clusively. She also does not dispute that legislation target-
ing the needs of newly freed blacks in 1865 could be under-
stood as directly remedial. Even today, nothing prevents
the States from according an admissions preference to identi-
fed victims of discrimination. See Croson, 488 U. S., at 526

3
UNC asserts that the Freedmen's Bureau gave money to Berea Col-
lege at a time when the school sought to achieve a 50–50 ratio of black to
white students. Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–707, p. 32.
But, evidence suggests that, at the relevant time, Berea conducted its
admissions without distinction by race. S. Wilson, Berea College: An Il-
lustrated History 2 (2006) (quoting Berea's frst president's statement that
the school “would welcome `all races of men, without distinction' ”).
250 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

(opinion of Scalia, J.) (“While most of the benefciaries might
be black, neither the benefciaries nor those disadvantaged
by the preference would be identifed on the basis of their
race” (emphasis in original)); see also ante, at 230.
Justice Sotomayor points also to the Civil Rights Act of
1866, which as discussed above, mandated that all citizens
have the same rights as those “enjoyed by white citizens.”
14 Stat. 27. But these references to the station of white
citizens do not refute the view that the Fourteenth Amend-
ment is colorblind. Rather, they specify that, in meeting the
Amendment's goal of equal citizenship, States must level up.
The Act did not single out a group of citizens for special
treatment—rather, all citizens were meant to be treated the
same as those who, at the time, had the full rights of citizen-
ship. Other provisions of the 1866 Act reinforce this view,
providing for equality in civil rights. See Rappaport 97.
Most notably, § 14 stated that the basic civil rights of citizen-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ship shall be secured “without respect to race or color.” 14
Stat. 176–177. And, § 8 required that funds from land sales
must be used to support schools “without distinction of color
or race, . . . in the parishes of ” the area where the land had
been sold. Id., at 175.
In addition to these federal laws, Harvard also points to
two state laws: a South Carolina statute that placed the bur-
den of proof on the defendant when a “colored or black”
plaintiff claimed a violation, 1870 S. C. Acts pp. 387–388, and
Kentucky legislation that authorized a county superintend-
ent to aid “negro paupers” in Mercer County, 1871 Ky. Acts
pp. 273–274. Even if these statutes provided race-based
benefts, they do not support respondents' and Justice So-
tomayor's view that the Fourteenth Amendment was con-
temporaneously understood to permit differential treatment
based on race, prohibiting only caste legislation while author-
izing antisubordination measures. Cf., e. g., O. Fiss, Groups
and the Equal Protection Clause, 5 Philos. & Pub. Aff.
107, 147 (1976) (articulating the antisubordination view);
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 251

Thomas, J., concurring

R. Siegel, Equality Talk: Antisubordination and Anticlassif-
cation Values in Constitutional Struggles Over Brown, 117
Harv. L. Rev. 1470, 1473, n. 8 (2004) (collecting scholarship).
At most, these laws would support the kinds of discrete re-
medial measures that our precedents have permitted.
If services had been given only to white persons up to
the Fourteenth Amendment's adoption, then providing those
same services only to previously excluded black persons
would work to equalize treatment against a concrete baseline
of government-imposed inequality. It thus may have been
the case that Kentucky's county-specifc, race-based public
aid law was necessary because that particular county was
not providing certain services to local poor blacks. Simi-
larly, South Carolina's burden-shifting framework (where the
substantive rule being applied remained notably race neu-
tral) may have been necessary to streamline litigation
around the most commonly litigated type of case: a lawsuit
Page Proof Pending Publication
seeking to remedy discrimination against a member of the
large population of recently freed black Americans. See
1870 S. C. Acts, at 386 (documenting “persist[ent]” racial dis-
crimination by state-licensed entities).
Most importantly, however, there was a wide range of fed-
eral and state statutes enacted at the time of the Fourteenth
Amendment's adoption and during the period thereafter that
explicitly sought to discriminate against blacks on the basis
of race or a proxy for race. See Rappaport 113–115. These
laws, hallmarks of the race-conscious Jim Crow era, are pre-
cisely the sort of enactments that the Framers of the Four-
teenth Amendment sought to eradicate. Yet, proponents of
an antisubordination view necessarily do not take those laws
as evidence of the Fourteenth Amendment's true meaning.
And rightly so. Neither those laws, nor a small number of
laws that appear to target blacks for preferred treatment,
displace the equality vision refected in the history of the
Fourteenth Amendment's enactment. This is particularly
true in light of the clear equality requirements present in the
252 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

Fourteenth Amendment's text. See New York State Rife &
Pistol Assn., Inc. v. Bruen, 597 U. S. –––, ––– – ––– (2022)
(noting that text controls over inconsistent postratifcation
history).
II
Properly understood, our precedents have largely adhered
to the Fourteenth Amendment's demand for colorblind laws.4
That is why, for example, courts “must subject all racial clas-
sifcations to the strictest of scrutiny.” Jenkins, 515 U. S.,
at 121 (Thomas, J., concurring); see also ante, at 207, n. 3
(emphasizing the consequences of an insuffciently searching
inquiry). And, in case after case, we have employed strict
scrutiny vigorously to reject various forms of racial discrimi-
nation as unconstitutional. See Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 317–
318 (Thomas, J., concurring). The Court today rightly up-
holds that tradition and acknowledges the consequences that
have fowed from Grutter's contrary approach.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Three aspects of today's decision warrant comment: First,
to satisfy strict scrutiny, universities must be able to estab-
lish an actual link between racial discrimination and educa-
tional benefts. Second, those engaged in racial discrimina-
tion do not deserve deference with respect to their reasons
for discriminating. Third, attempts to remedy past govern-

4
The Court has remarked that Title VI is coextensive with the Equal
Protection Clause. See Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 244, 276, n. 23 (2003)
(“We have explained that discrimination that violates the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment committed by an institution that
accepts federal funds also constitutes a violation of Title VI”); Regents of
Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 287 (1978) (opinion of Powell, J.)
(“Title VI . . . proscribe[s] only those racial classifcations that would vio-
late the Equal Protection Clause”). As Justice Gorsuch points out, the
language of Title VI makes no allowance for racial considerations in uni-
versity admissions. See post, at 288 (concurring opinion). Though I con-
tinue to adhere to my view in Bostock v. Clayton County, 590 U. S.
–––, ––– – ––– (2020) (Alito, J., dissenting), I agree with Justice Gor-
such's concurrence in this case. The plain text of Title VI reinforces the
colorblind view of the Fourteenth Amendment.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 253

Thomas, J., concurring

mental discrimination must be closely tailored to address
that particular past governmental discrimination.

A
To satisfy strict scrutiny, universities must be able to es-
tablish a compelling reason to racially discriminate. Grut-
ter recognized “only one” interest suffciently compelling to
justify race-conscious admissions programs: the “educational
benefts of a diverse student body.” 539 U. S., at 328, 333.
Expanding on this theme, Harvard and UNC have offered
a grab bag of interests to justify their programs, span-
ning from “ `training future leaders in the public and private
sectors' ” to “ `enhancing appreciation, respect, and empa-
thy,' ” with references to “ `better educating [their] stu-
dents through diversity' ” in between. Ante, at 214. The
Court today fnds that each of these interests are too vague
and immeasurable to suffce, ibid., and I agree.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Even in Grutter, the Court failed to clearly defne “the
educational benefts of a diverse student body.” 539 U. S.,
at 333. Thus, in the years since Grutter, I have sought to
understand exactly how racial diversity yields educational
benefts. With nearly 50 years to develop their arguments,
neither Harvard nor UNC—two of the foremost research in-
stitutions in the world—nor any of their amici can explain
that critical link.
Harvard, for example, offers a report fnding that mean-
ingful representation of racial minorities promotes several
goals. Only one of those goals—“producing new knowledge
stemming from diverse outlooks,” 980 F. 3d 157, 174 (CA1
2020)—bears any possible relationship to educational bene-
fts. Yet, it too is extremely vague and offers no indication
that, for example, student test scores increased as a result
of Harvard's efforts toward racial diversity.
More fundamentally, it is not clear how racial diversity, as
opposed to other forms of diversity, uniquely and independ-
ently advances Harvard's goal. This is particularly true be-
254 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

cause Harvard blinds itself to other forms of applicant diver-
sity, such as religion. See 2 App. in No. 20–1199, pp. 734–
743. It may be the case that exposure to different perspec-
tives and thoughts can foster debate, sharpen young minds,
and hone students' reasoning skills. But, it is not clear how
diversity with respect to race, qua race, furthers this goal.
Two white students, one from rural Appalachia and one from
a wealthy San Francisco suburb, may well have more diverse
outlooks on this metric than two students from Manhattan's
Upper East Side attending its most elite schools, one of
whom is white and the other of whom is black. If Harvard
cannot even explain the link between racial diversity and
education, then surely its interest in racial diversity cannot
be compelling enough to overcome the constitutional limits
on race consciousness.
UNC fares no better. It asserts, for example, an interest
in training students to “live together in a diverse society.”
Page Proof Pending Publication
Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–707, p. 39. This
may well be important to a university experience, but it is a
social goal, not an educational one. See Grutter, 539 U. S.,
at 347–348 (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting
in part) (criticizing similar rationales as divorced from edu-
cational goals). And, again, UNC offers no reason why
seeking a diverse society would not be equally supported by
admitting individuals with diverse perspectives and back-
grounds, rather than varying skin pigmentation.
Nor have amici pointed to any concrete and quantifable
educational benefts of racial diversity. The United States
focuses on alleged civic benefts, including “increasing toler-
ance and decreasing racial prejudice.” Brief for United
States as Amicus Curiae 21–22. Yet, when it comes to edu-
cational benefts, the Government offers only one study pur-
portedly showing that “college diversity experiences are sig-
nifcantly and positively related to cognitive development”
and that “interpersonal interactions with racial diversity are
the most strongly related to cognitive development. ”
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 255

Thomas, J., concurring

N. Bowman, College Diversity Experiences and Cognitive
Development: A Meta-Analysis, 80 Rev. Educ. Research 4,
20 (2010). Here again, the link is, at best, tenuous, unspe-
cifc, and stereotypical. Other amici assert that diversity
(generally) fosters the even-more nebulous values of “cre-
ativity” and “innovation,” particularly in graduates' future
workplaces. See, e. g., Brief for Major American Business
Enterprises as Amici Curiae 7–9; Brief for Massachusetts
Institute of Technology et al. as Amici Curiae 16–17 (de-
scribing experience at IBM). Yet, none of those assertions
deals exclusively with racial diversity—as opposed to cul-
tural or ideological diversity. And, none of those amici
demonstrate measurable or concrete benefts that have
resulted from universities' race-conscious admissions
programs.
Of course, even if these universities had shown that racial
diversity yielded any concrete or measurable benefts, they
Page Proof Pending Publication
would still face a very high bar to show that their interest
is compelling. To survive strict scrutiny, any such benefts
would have to outweigh the tremendous harm inficted by
sorting individuals on the basis of race. See Cooper v.
Aaron, 358 U. S. 1, 16 (1958) (following Brown, “law and
order are not here to be preserved by depriving the Negro
children of their constitutional rights”). As the Court's
opinions in these cases make clear, all racial stereotypes
harm and demean individuals. That is why “only those
measures the State must take to provide a bulwark against
anarchy, or to prevent violence, will constitute a pressing
public necessity” suffcient to satisfy strict scrutiny today.
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 353 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (internal
quotations marks omitted). Cf. Lee v. Washington, 390 U. S.
333, 334 (1968) (Black, J., concurring) (protecting prisoners
from violence might justify narrowly tailored discrimina-
tion); Croson, 488 U. S., at 521 (opinion of Scalia, J.) (“At least
where state or local action is at issue, only a social emer-
gency rising to the level of imminent danger to life and
256 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

limb . . . can justify [racial discrimination]”). For this rea-
son, “just as the alleged educational benefts of segregation
were insuffcient to justify racial discrimination [in the
1950s], see Brown v. Board of Education, the alleged educa-
tional benefts of diversity cannot justify racial discrimina-
tion today.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 320 (Thomas, J., concur-
ring) (citation omitted).
B
The Court also correctly refuses to defer to the universi-
ties' own assessments that the alleged benefts of race-
conscious admissions programs are compelling. It instead
demands that the “interests [universities] view as compel-
ling” must be capable of being “subjected to meaningful judi-
cial review.” Ante, at 214. In other words, a court must
be able to measure the goals asserted and determine when
they have been reached. Ante, at 214–215. The Court's
opinion today further insists that universities must be able to
Page Proof Pending Publication
“articulate a meaningful connection between the means they
employ and the goals they pursue.” Ante, at 215. Again, I
agree. Universities' self-proclaimed righteousness does not
afford them license to discriminate on the basis of race.
In fact, it is error for a court to defer to the views of an
alleged discriminator while assessing claims of racial dis-
crimination. See Grutter, 539 U. S., at 362–364 (opinion of
Thomas, J.); see also Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 318–319 (Thomas,
J., concurring); United States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515, 551,
n. 19 (1996) (refusing to defer to the Virginia Military Insti-
tute's judgment that the changes necessary to accommodate
the admission of women would be too great and characteriz-
ing the necessary changes as “manageable”). We would not
offer such deference in any other context. In employment
discrimination lawsuits under Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act, for example, courts require only a minimal prima facie
showing by a complainant before shifting the burden onto
the shoulders of the alleged-discriminator employer. See
McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411 U. S. 792, 803–805
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 257

Thomas, J., concurring

(1973). And, Congress has passed numerous laws—such as
the Civil Rights Act of 1875—under its authority to enforce
the Fourteenth Amendment, each designed to counter dis-
crimination and each relying on courts to bring a skeptical
eye to alleged discriminators.
This judicial skepticism is vital. History has repeatedly
shown that purportedly benign discrimination may be perni-
cious, and discriminators may go to great lengths to hide and
perpetuate their unlawful conduct. Take, for example, the
university respondents here. Harvard's “holistic” admis-
sions policy began in the 1920s when it was developed to
exclude Jews. See M. Synnott, The Half-Opened Door: Dis-
crimination and Admission at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton,
1900–1970, pp. 58–59, 61, 69, 73–74 (2010). Based on de facto
quotas that Harvard quietly implemented, the proportion of
Jews in Harvard's freshman class declined from 28% as late
as 1925 to just 12% by 1933. J. Karabel, The Chosen: The
Page Proof Pending Publication
Hidden History of Admission and Exclusion at Harvard,
Yale, and Princeton 172 (2005). During this same period,
Harvard played a prominent role in the eugenics movement.
According to then-President Abbott Lawrence Lowell, ex-
cluding Jews from Harvard would help maintain admissions
opportunities for Gentiles and perpetuate the purity of the
Brahmin race—New England's white, Protestant upper
crust. See D. Okrent, The Guarded Gate 309, and n. *
(2019).
UNC also has a checkered history, dating back to its time
as a segregated university. It admitted its frst black under-
graduate students in 1955—but only after being ordered to
do so by a court, following a long legal battle in which UNC
sought to keep its segregated status. Even then, UNC did
not turn on a dime: The frst three black students admitted
as undergraduates enrolled at UNC but ultimately earned
their bachelor's degrees elsewhere. See M. Beauregard,
Column: The Desegregation of UNC, The Daily Tar Heel,
Feb. 16, 2022. To the extent past is prologue, the university
258 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

respondents' histories hardly recommend them as trustwor-
thy arbiters of whether racial discrimination is necessary to
achieve educational goals.
Of course, none of this should matter in any event; courts
have an independent duty to interpret and uphold the Con-
stitution that no university's claimed interest may override.
See ante, at 218, n. 5. The Court today makes clear that, in
the future, universities wishing to discriminate based on race
in admissions must articulate and justify a compelling and
measurable state interest based on concrete evidence.
Given the strictures set out by the Court, I highly doubt any
will be able to do so.
C
In an effort to salvage their patently unconstitutional pro-
grams, the universities and their amici pivot to argue that
the Fourteenth Amendment permits the use of race to bene-
ft only certain racial groups—rather than applicants writ
Page Proof Pending Publication
large. Yet, this is just the latest disguise for discrimination.
The sudden narrative shift is not surprising, as it has long
been apparent that “ `diversity [was] merely the current ra-
tionale of convenience' ” to support racially discriminatory
admissions programs. Grutter, 539 U. S., at 393 (Ken-
nedy, J., dissenting). Under our precedents, this new ration-
ale is also lacking.
To start, the case for affrmative action has emphasized a
number of rationales over the years, including: (1) restitution
to compensate those who have been victimized by past dis-
crimination, (2) fostering “diversity,” (3) facilitating “inte-
gration” and the destruction of perceived racial castes, and
(4) countering longstanding and diffuse racial prejudice.
See R. Kennedy, For Discrimination: Race, Affrmative Ac-
tion, and the Law 78 (2013); see also P. Schuck, Affrmative
Action: Past, Present, and Future, 20 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev.
1, 22–46 (2002). Again, this Court has only recognized one
interest as compelling: the educational benefts of diversity
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 259

Thomas, J., concurring

embraced in Grutter. Yet, as the universities defne the “di-
versity” that they practice, it encompasses social and aes-
thetic goals far afeld from the education-based interest dis-
cussed in Grutter. See supra, at 214. The dissents too
attempt to stretch the diversity rationale, suggesting that it
supports broad remedial interests. See, e. g., post, at 339,
358, 382 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (noting that UNC's black
admissions percentages “do not refect the diversity of the
State”; equating the diversity interest under the Court's
precedents with a goal of “integration in higher education”
more broadly; and warning of “the dangerous consequences
of an America where its leadership does not refect the diver-
sity of the People”); post, at 405 (opinion of Jackson, J.) (ex-
plaining that diversity programs close wealth gaps). But
language—particularly the language of controlling opinions
of this Court—is not so elastic. See J. Pieper, Abuse of Lan-
guage—Abuse of Power 23 (L. Krauth transl. 1992) (explain-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ing that propaganda, “in contradiction to the nature of lan-
guage, intends not to communicate but to manipulate” and
becomes an “[i]nstrument of power” (emphasis deleted)).
The Court refuses to engage in this lexicographic drift,
seeing these arguments for what they are: a remedial ration-
ale in disguise. See ante, at 226–227. As the Court points
out, the interest for which respondents advocate has been
presented to and rejected by this Court many times before.
In Regents of University of California v. Bakke, 438 U. S.
265 (1978), the University of California made clear its ration-
ale for the quota system it had established: It wished to
“counteract effects of generations of pervasive discrimina-
tion” against certain minority groups. Brief for Petitioner,
O. T. 1977, No. 76–811, p. 2. But, the Court rejected this
distinctly remedial rationale, with Justice Powell adopting in
its place the familiar “diversity” interest that appeared later
in Grutter. See Bakke, 438 U. S., at 306 (plurality opinion).
The Court similarly did not adopt the broad remedial ration-
260 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

ale in Grutter; and it rejects it again today. Newly and
often minted theories cannot be said to be commanded by
our precedents.
Indeed, our precedents have repeatedly and soundly dis-
tinguished between programs designed to compensate vic-
tims of past governmental discrimination from so-called be-
nign race-conscious measures, such as affrmative action.
Croson, 488 U. S., at 504–505; Adarand Constructors, Inc. v.
Peña, 515 U. S. 200, 226–227 (1995). To enforce that distinc-
tion, our precedents explicitly require that any attempt to
compensate victims of past governmental discrimination
must be concrete and traceable to the de jure segregated
system, which must have some discrete and continuing dis-
criminatory effect that warrants a present remedy. See
United States v. Fordice, 505 U. S. 717, 731 (1992). Today's
opinion for the Court reaffrms the need for such a close re-
medial ft, hewing to the same line we have consistently
Page Proof Pending Publication
drawn. Ante, at 215–216.
Without such guardrails, the Fourteenth Amendment
would become self-defeating, promising a Nation based on
the equality ideal but yielding a quota- and caste-ridden soci-
ety steeped in race-based discrimination. Even Grutter it-
self could not tolerate this outcome. It accordingly imposed
a time limit for its race-based regime, observing that “ `a core
purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to do away with
all governmentally imposed discrimination based on race.' ”
539 U. S., at 341–342 (quoting Palmore v. Sidoti, 466 U. S.
429, 432 (1984); alterations omitted).
The Court today enforces those limits. And rightly so.
As noted above, both Harvard and UNC have a history of
racial discrimination. But, neither have even attempted to
explain how their current racially discriminatory programs
are even remotely traceable to their past discriminatory con-
duct. Nor could they; the current race-conscious admissions
programs take no account of ancestry and, at least for Har-
vard, likely have the effect of discriminating against some of
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 261

Thomas, J., concurring

the very same ethnic groups against which Harvard pre-
viously discriminated (i. e., Jews and those who are not part
of the white elite). All the while, Harvard and UNC ask us
to blind ourselves to the burdens imposed on the millions of
innocent applicants denied admission because of their mem-
bership in a currently disfavored race.
The Constitution neither commands nor permits such a
result. “Purchased at the price of immeasurable human suf-
fering,” the Fourteenth Amendment recognizes that classif-
cations based on race lead to ruinous consequences for
individuals and the Nation. Adarand Constructors, Inc.,
515 U. S., at 240 (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concur-
ring in judgment). Consequently, “all” racial classifcations
are “inherently suspect,” id., at 223–224 (majority opinion)
(emphasis added; internal quotation marks omitted), and
must be subjected to the searching inquiry conducted by the
Court, ante, at 213–225.
III
Page Proof Pending Publication
Both experience and logic have vindicated the Constitu-
tion's colorblind rule and confrmed that the universities' new
narrative cannot stand. Despite the Court's hope in Grutter
that universities would voluntarily end their race-conscious
programs and further the goal of racial equality, the opposite
appears increasingly true. Harvard and UNC now forth-
rightly state that they racially discriminate when it comes
to admitting students, arguing that such discrimination is
consistent with this Court's precedents. And they, along
with today's dissenters, defend that discrimination as good.
More broadly, it is becoming increasingly clear that discrimi-
nation on the basis of race—often packaged as “affrmative
action” or “equity” programs—are based on the benighted
notion “that it is possible to tell when discrimination helps,
rather than hurts, racial minorities.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at
328 (Thomas, J., concurring).
We cannot be guided by those who would desire less in
our Constitution, or by those who would desire more. “The
262 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

Constitution abhors classifcations based on race, not only be-
cause those classifcations can harm favored races or are
based on illegitimate motives, but also because every time
the government places citizens on racial registers and makes
race relevant to the provision of burdens or benefts, it
demeans us all.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 353 (opinion of
Thomas, J.).
A
The Constitution's colorblind rule refects one of the core
principles upon which our Nation was founded: that “all men
are created equal.” Those words featured prominently in
our Declaration of Independence and were inspired by a rich
tradition of political thinkers, from Locke to Montesquieu,
who considered equality to be the foundation of a just gov-
ernment. See, e. g., J. Locke, Second Treatise of Civil Gov-
ernment 48 (J. Gough ed. 1948); T. Hobbes, Leviathan 98 (M.
Oakeshott ed. 1962); 1 B. Montesquieu, The Spirit of Laws
Page Proof Pending Publication
121 (T. Nugent transl., J. Prichard ed. 1914). Several Con-
stitutions enacted by the newly independent States at the
founding refected this principle. For example, the Virginia
Bill of Rights of 1776 explicitly affrmed “[t]hat all men are
by nature equally free and independent, and have certain
inherent rights.” Ch. 1, § 1. The State Constitutions of
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and New Hampshire adopted
similar language. Pa. Const., Art. I (1776), in 2 Federal and
State Constitutions 1541 (P. Poore ed. 1877); Mass. Const.,
Art. I (1780), in 1 id., at 957; N. H. Const., Art. I (1784), in 2
id., at 1280.5 And, prominent Founders publicly mused

5
In fact, the Massachusetts Supreme Court in 1783 declared that slavery
was abolished in Massachusetts by virtue of the newly enacted Constitu-
tion's provision of equality under the law. See The Quock Walker Case,
in 1 H. Commager, Documents of American History 110 (9th ed. 1973)
(Cushing, C. J.) (“[W]hatever sentiments have formerly prevailed in this
particular or slid in upon us by the example of others, a different idea has
taken place with the people of America, more favorable to the natural
rights of mankind, and to that natural, innate desire of Liberty . . . . And
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 263

Thomas, J., concurring

about the need for equality as the foundation for govern-
ment. E. g., 1 Cong. Register 430 (T. Lloyd ed. 1789) (Madi-
son, J.); 1 Letters and Other Writings of James Madison 164
(J. Lippincott ed. 1867); N. Webster, The Revolution in
France, in 2 Political Sermons of the Founding Era, 1730–
1805, pp. 1236–1299 (1998). As Jefferson declared in his frst
inaugural address, “the minority possess their equal rights,
which equal law must protect.” First Inaugural Address
(Mar. 4, 1801), in 8 The Writings of Thomas Jefferson 4
(Washington ed. 1854).
Our Nation did not initially live up to the equality princi-
ple. The institution of slavery persisted for nearly a cen-
tury, and the United States Constitution itself included sev-
eral provisions acknowledging the practice. The period
leading up to our second founding brought these faws into
bold relief and encouraged the Nation to fnally make good
on the equality promise. As Lincoln recognized, the prom-
ise of equality extended to all people—including immigrants
Page Proof Pending Publication
and blacks whose ancestors had taken no part in the original
founding. See Speech at Chicago, Ill. (July 10, 1858), in
2 The Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln 488–489, 499
(R. Basler ed. 1953). Thus, in Lincoln's view, “ `the natural
rights enumerated in the Declaration of Independence' ” ex-
tended to blacks as his “ `equal,' ” and “ `the equal of every
living man.' ” The Lincoln-Douglas Debates 285 (H. Holzer
ed. 1993).
As discussed above, the Fourteenth Amendment refected
that vision, affrming that equality and racial discrimination
cannot coexist. Under that Amendment, the color of a per-
son's skin is irrelevant to that individual's equal status as a
citizen of this Nation. To treat him differently on the basis
of such a legally irrelevant trait is therefore a deviation from
the equality principle and a constitutional injury.

upon this ground our Constitution of Government . . . sets out with declar-
ing that all men are born free and equal . . . and in short is totally repug-
nant to the idea of being born slaves”).
264 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

Of course, even the promise of the second founding took
time to materialize. Seeking to perpetuate a segregationist
system in the wake of the Fourteenth Amendment's ratifca-
tion, proponents urged a “separate but equal” regime. They
met with initial success, ossifying the segregationist view for
over a half century. As this Court said in Plessy:
“A statute which implies merely a legal distinction be-
tween the white and colored races—a distinction which
is founded in the color of the two races, and which must
always exist so long as white men are distinguished
from the other race by color—has no tendency to de-
stroy the legal equality of the two races, or reestablish
a state of involuntary servitude.” 163 U. S., at 543.

Such a statement, of course, is precisely antithetical to the
notion that all men, regardless of the color of their skin, are
born equal and must be treated equally under the law. Only
Page Proof Pending Publication
one Member of the Court adhered to the equality principle;
Justice Harlan, standing alone in dissent, wrote: “Our Consti-
tution is color-blind, and neither knows nor tolerates classes
among citizens. In respect of civil rights, all citizens are
equal before the law.” Id., at 559. Though Justice Harlan
rightly predicted that Plessy would, “in time, prove to be
quite as pernicious as the decision made . . . in the Dred
Scott case,” the Plessy rule persisted for over a half century.
Ibid. While it remained in force, Jim Crow laws prohibiting
blacks from entering or utilizing public facilities such as
schools, libraries, restaurants, and theaters sprang up across
the South.
This Court rightly reversed course in Brown v. Board of
Education. The Brown appellants—those challenging seg-
regated schools—embraced the equality principle, arguing
that “[a] racial criterion is a constitutional irrelevance, and is
not saved from condemnation even though dictated by a sin-
cere desire to avoid the possibility of violence or race fric-
tion.” Brief for Appellants in Brown v. Board of Educa-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 265

Thomas, J., concurring

tion, O. T. 1952, No. 1, p. 7 (citation omitted).6 Embracing
that view, the Court held that “in the feld of public education
the doctrine of `separate but equal' has no place” and “[s]epa-
rate educational facilities are inherently unequal.” Brown,
347 U. S., at 493, 495. Importantly, in reaching this conclu-
sion, Brown did not rely on the particular qualities of the
Kansas schools. The mere separation of students on the
basis of race—the “segregation complained of,” id., at 495
(emphasis added)—constituted a constitutional injury. See
ante, at 203 (“Separate cannot be equal”).
Just a few years later, the Court's application of Brown
made explicit what was already forcefully implied: “[O]ur de-
cisions have foreclosed any possible contention that . . . a
statute or regulation” fostering segregation in public facili-
ties “may stand consistently with the Fourteenth Amend-
ment.” Turner v. Memphis, 369 U. S. 350, 353 (1962) (per
curiam); cf. A. Blaustein & C. Ferguson, Desegregation and
the Law: The Meaning and Effect of the School Segregation
Page Proof Pending Publication
Cases 145 (rev. 2d ed. 1962) (arguing that the Court in Brown
had “adopt[ed] a constitutional standard” declaring “that all
classifcation by race is unconstitutional per se”).
Today, our precedents place this principle beyond question.
In assessing racial segregation during a race-motivated
prison riot, for example, this Court applied strict scrutiny
without requiring an allegation of unequal treatment among
the segregated facilities. Johnson v. California, 543 U. S.
499, 505–506 (2005). The Court today reaffrms the rule,
stating that, following Brown, “[t]he time for making distinc-
6
Briefng in a case consolidated with Brown stated the colorblind posi-
tion forthrightly: Classifcations “[b]ased [s]olely on [r]ace or [c]olor” “can
never be” constitutional. Juris. Statement in Briggs v. Elliott, O. T.
1951, No. 273, pp. 20–21, 25, 29; see also Juris. Statement in Davis v.
County School Bd. of Prince Edward Cty., O. T. 1952, No. 191, p. 8 (“In-
deed, we take the unqualifed position that the Fourteenth Amendment
has totally stripped the state of power to make race and color the basis
for governmental action. . . . For this reason alone, we submit, the state
separate school laws in this case must fall”).
266 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

tions based on race had passed.” Ante, at 204. “What was
wrong” when the Court decided Brown “in 1954 cannot be
right today.” Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at 778 (Thomas,
J., concurring). Rather, we must adhere to the promise of
equality under the law declared by the Declaration of Inde-
pendence and codifed by the Fourteenth Amendment.

B
Respondents and the dissents argue that the universities'
race-conscious admissions programs ought to be permitted
because they accomplish positive social goals. I would have
thought that history had by now taught a “greater humility”
when attempting to “distinguish good from harmful govern-
mental uses of racial criteria.” Id., at 742 (plurality opin-
ion). From the Black Codes, to discriminatory and destruc-
tive social welfare programs, to discrimination by individual
government actors, bigotry has reared its ugly head time and
Page Proof Pending Publication
again. Anyone who today thinks that some form of racial
discrimination will prove “helpful” should thus tread cau-
tiously, lest racial discriminators succeed (as they once did)
in using such language to disguise more invidious motives.
Arguments for the benefts of race-based solutions have
proved pernicious in segregationist circles. Segregated uni-
versities once argued that race-based discrimination was
needed “to preserve harmony and peace and at the same
time furnish equal education to both groups.” Brief for Re-
spondents in Sweatt v. Painter, O. T. 1949, No. 44, p. 94; see
also id., at 79 (“ `[T]he mores of racial relationships are such
as to rule out, for the present at least, any possibility of ad-
mitting white persons and Negroes to the same institu-
tions' ”). And, parties consistently attempted to convince
the Court that the time was not right to disrupt segregation-
ist systems. See Brief for Appellees in McLaurin v. Okla-
homa State Regents for Higher Ed., O. T. 1949, No. 34, p. 12
(claiming that a holding rejecting separate but equal would
“necessarily result . . . [i]n the abandoning of many of the
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 267

Thomas, J., concurring

state's existing educational establishments” and the “crowd-
ing of other such establishments”); Brief for State of Kansas
on Reargument in Brown v. Board of Education, O. T. 1953,
No. 1, p. 56 (“We grant that segregation may not be the ethi-
cal or political ideal. At the same time we recognize that
practical considerations may prevent realization of the
ideal”); Tr. of Oral Arg. in Davis v. School Bd. of Prince
Edward Cty., O. T. 1954, No. 3, p. 208 (“We are up against
the proposition: What does the Negro proft if he procures
an immediate detailed decree from this Court now and then
impairs or mars or destroys the public school system in
Prince Edward County”). Litigants have even gone so far
as to offer straight-faced arguments that segregation has
practical benefts. Brief for Respondents in Sweatt v.
Painter, at 77–78 (requesting deference to a state law, ob-
serving that “ `the necessity for such separation [of the races]
still exists in the interest of public welfare, safety, harmony,
Page Proof Pending Publication
health, and recreation . . . ' ” and remarking on the reason-
ableness of the position); Brief for Appellees in Davis v.
County School Bd. of Prince Edward Cty., O. T. 1952, No. 3,
p. 17 (“Virginia has established segregation in certain felds
as a part of her public policy to prevent violence and reduce
resentment. The result, in the view of an overwhelming
Virginia majority, has been to improve the relationship be-
tween the different races”); id., at 25 (“If segregation be
stricken down, the general welfare will be defnitely harmed
. . . there would be more friction developed” (internal quota-
tion marks omitted)). In fact, slaveholders once “argued
that slavery was a `positive good' that civilized blacks and
elevated them in every dimension of life,” and “segregation-
ists similarly asserted that segregation was not only benign,
but good for black students.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 328–
329 (Thomas, J., concurring).
“Indeed, if our history has taught us anything, it has
taught us to beware of elites bearing racial theories.” Par-
ents Involved, 551 U. S., at 780–781 (Thomas, J., concurring).
268 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

We cannot now blink reality to pretend, as the dissents urge,
that affrmative action should be legally permissible merely
because the experts assure us that it is “good” for black stu-
dents. Though I do not doubt the sincerity of my dissenting
colleagues' beliefs, experts and elites have been wrong
before—and they may prove to be wrong again. In part
for this reason, the Fourteenth Amendment outlaws
government-sanctioned racial discrimination of all types.
The stakes are simply too high to gamble.7 Then, as now,
the views that motivated Dred Scott and Plessy have not
been confned to the past, and we must remain ever vigilant
against all forms of racial discrimination.

C
Even taking the desire to help on its face, what initially
seems like aid may in reality be a burden, including for the
very people it seeks to assist. Take, for example, the college
Page Proof Pending Publication
admissions policies here. “Affrmative action” policies do
nothing to increase the overall number of blacks and Hispan-
ics able to access a college education. Rather, those racial
policies simply redistribute individuals among institutions of
higher learning, placing some into more competitive institu-
tions than they otherwise would have attended. See T. So-
well, Affrmative Action Around the World 145–146 (2004).
7
Indeed, the lawyers who litigated Brown were unwilling to take this
bet, insisting on a colorblind legal rule. See, e. g., Supp. Brief for Appel-
lants on Reargument in Nos. 1, 2, and 4, and for Respondents in No. 10, in
Brown v. Board of Education, O. T. 1953, p. 65 (“That the Constitution is
color blind is our dedicated belief ”); Brief for Appellants in Brown v.
Board of Education, O. T. 1952, No. 1, p. 5 (“The Fourteenth Amendment
precludes a state from imposing distinctions or classifcations based upon
race and color alone”). In fact, Justice Marshall viewed Justice Harlan's
Plessy dissent as “a `Bible' to which he turned during his most depressed
moments”; no opinion “buoyed Marshall more in his pre-Brown days.” In
Memoriam: Honorable Thurgood Marshall, Proceedings of the Bar and Of-
fcers of the Supreme Court of the United States, p. X (1993) (remarks of
Judge Motley).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 269

Thomas, J., concurring

In doing so, those policies sort at least some blacks and His-
panics into environments where they are less likely to suc-
ceed academically relative to their peers. Ibid. The re-
sulting mismatch places “many blacks and Hispanics who
likely would have excelled at less elite schools . . . in a posi-
tion where underperformance is all but inevitable because
they are less academically prepared than the white and
Asian students with whom they must compete.” Fisher I,
570 U. S., at 332 (Thomas, J., concurring).
It is self-evident why that is so. As anyone who has la-
bored over an algebra textbook has undoubtedly discovered,
academic advancement results from hard work and practice,
not mere declaration. Simply treating students as though
their grades put them at the top of their high school classes
does nothing to enhance the performance level of those stu-
dents or otherwise prepare them for competitive college en-
vironments. In fact, studies suggest that large racial pref-
Page Proof Pending Publication
erences for black and Hispanic applicants have led to a
disproportionately large share of those students receiving
mediocre or poor grades once they arrive in competitive col-
legiate environments. See, e. g., R. Sander, A Systemic
Analysis of Affrmative Action in American Law Schools, 57
Stan. L. Rev. 367, 371–372 (2004); see also R. Sander &
R. Steinbuch, Mismatch and Bar Passage: A School-Specifc
Analysis (Oct. 6, 2017), https://ssrn.com/abstract=3054208.
Take science, technology, engineering, and mathematics
(STEM) felds, for example. Those students who receive a
large admissions preference are more likely to drop out of
STEM felds than similarly situated students who did not
receive such a preference. F. Smith & J. McArdle, Ethnic
and Gender Differences in Science Graduation at Selective
Colleges With Implications for Admission Policy and College
Choice, 45 Research in Higher Ed. 353 (2004). “Even if most
minority students are able to meet the normal standards at
the `average' range of colleges and universities, the system-
atic mismatching of minority students begun at the top can
270 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

mean that such students are generally overmatched through-
out all levels of higher education.” T. Sowell, Race and Cul-
ture 176–177 (1994).8
These policies may harm even those who succeed academi-
cally. I have long believed that large racial preferences in
college admissions “stamp [blacks and Hispanics] with a
badge of inferiority.” Adarand, 515 U. S., at 241 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). They thus “tain[t] the accomplishments of all
those who are admitted as a result of racial discrimination”
as well as “all those who are the same race as those admitted
as a result of racial discrimination” because “no one can dis-
tinguish those students from the ones whose race played a
role in their admission.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 333 (opinion
of Thomas, J.). Consequently, “[w]hen blacks” and, now,
Hispanics “take positions in the highest places of govern-
ment, industry, or academia, it is an open question . . .
whether their skin color played a part in their advancement.”
Page Proof Pending Publication
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 373 (Thomas, J., concurring). “The
question itself is the stigma—because either racial discrimi-
nation did play a role, in which case the person may be
deemed `otherwise unqualifed,' or it did not, in which case
asking the question itself unfairly marks those . . . who would
succeed without discrimination.” Ibid.

8
Justice Sotomayor rejects this mismatch theory as “debunked long
ago,” citing an amicus brief. Post, at 371. But, in 2016, the Journal of
Economic Literature published a review of mismatch literature—coau-
thored by a critic and a defender of affrmative action—which concluded
that the evidence for mismatch was “fairly convincing.” P. Arcidiacono &
M. Lovenheim, Affrmative Action and the Quality-Fit Tradeoff, 54
J. Econ. Lit. 3, 20 (Arcidiacono & Lovenheim). And, of course, if universi-
ties wish to refute the mismatch theory, they need only release the data
necessary to test its accuracy. See Brief for Richard Sander as Amicus
Curiae 16–19 (noting that universities have been unwilling to provide the
necessary data concerning student admissions and outcomes); accord, Ar-
cidiacono & Lovenheim 20 (“Our hope is that better datasets soon will
become available”).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 271

Thomas, J., concurring

Yet, in the face of those problems, it seems increasingly
clear that universities are focused on “aesthetic” solutions
unlikely to help deserving members of minority groups. In
fact, universities' affrmative action programs are a particu-
larly poor use of such resources. To start, these programs
are overinclusive, providing the same admissions bump to a
wealthy black applicant given every advantage in life as to
a black applicant from a poor family with seemingly insur-
mountable barriers to overcome. In doing so, the programs
may wind up helping the most well-off members of minority
races without meaningfully assisting those who struggle
with real hardship. Simultaneously, the programs risk con-
tinuing to ignore the academic underperformance of “the
purported `benefciaries' ” of racial preferences and the racial
stigma that those preferences generate. Grutter, 539 U. S.,
at 371 (opinion of Thomas, J.). Rather than performing
their academic mission, universities thus may “see[k] only a
facade—it is suffcient that the class looks right, even if it
Page Proof Pending Publication
does not perform right.” Id., at 372.

D
Finally, it is not even theoretically possible to “help” a
certain racial group without causing harm to members of
other racial groups. “It should be obvious that every racial
classifcation helps, in a narrow sense, some races and
hurts others.” Adarand, 515 U. S., at 241, n. * (opinion of
Thomas, J.). And, even purportedly benign race-based dis-
crimination has secondary effects on members of other races.
The antisubordination view thus has never guided the
Court's analysis because “whether a law relying upon racial
taxonomy is `benign' or `malign' either turns on `whose ox is
gored' or on distinctions found only in the eye of the be-
holder.” Ibid. (citations and some internal quotation marks
omitted). Courts are not suited to the impossible task of
determining which racially discriminatory programs are help-
272 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

ing which members of which races—and whether those bene-
fts outweigh the burdens thrust onto other racial groups.
As the Court's opinion today explains, the zero-sum nature
of college admissions—where students compete for a fnite
number of seats in each school's entering class—aptly demon-
strates the point. Ante, at 218–219.9 Petitioner here rep-
resents Asian Americans who allege that, at the margins,
Asian applicants were denied admission because of their
race. Yet, Asian Americans can hardly be described as the
benefciaries of historical racial advantages. To the con-
trary, our Nation's frst immigration ban targeted the Chi-
nese, in part, based on “worker resentment of the low wage
rates accepted by Chinese workers.” U. S. Commission on
Civil Rights, Civil Rights Issues Facing Asian Americans in
the 1990s, p. 3 (1992) (Civil Rights Issues); Act of May 6,
1882, ch. 126, 22 Stat. 58–59.
In subsequent years, “strong anti-Asian sentiments in the
Western States led to the adoption of many discriminatory
Page Proof Pending Publication
laws at the State and local levels, similar to those aimed at
blacks in the South,” and “segregation in public facilities,
including schools, was quite common until after the Second
World War.” Civil Rights Issues 7; see also S. Hinnershitz,
A Different Shade of Justice: Asian American Civil Rights
9
Justice Sotomayor apparently believes that race-conscious admission
programs can somehow increase the chances that members of certain races
(blacks and Hispanics) are admitted without decreasing the chances of
admission for members of other races (Asians). See post, at 374. This
simply defes mathematics. In a zero-sum game like college admissions,
any sorting mechanism that takes race into account, in any way, see post,
at 409 (opinion of Jackson, J.) (defending such a system)—has discrimi-
nated based on race to the beneft of some races and the detriment of
others. And, the universities here admit that race is determinative in at
least some of their admissions decisions. See, e. g., Tr. of Oral Arg. in No.
20–1199, at 67; 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 633 (MDNC 2021); see also 397 F. Supp.
3d 126, 178 (Mass. 2019) (noting that, for Harvard, “race is a determinative
tip for” a signifcant percentage “of all admitted African American and
Hispanic applicants”); ante, at 197, n. 1 (describing the role that race plays
in the universities' admissions processes).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 273

Thomas, J., concurring

in the South 21 (2017) (explaining that while both Asians and
blacks have at times fought “against similar forms of dis-
crimination,” “[t]he issues of citizenship and immigrant sta-
tus often defned Asian American battles for civil rights and
separated them from African American legal battles”). In-
deed, this Court even sanctioned this segregation—in the
context of schools, no less. In Gong Lum v. Rice, 275 U. S.
78, 81–82, 85–87 (1927), the Court held that a 9-year-old
Chinese-American girl could be denied entry to a “white”
school because she was “a member of the Mongolian or yel-
low race.”
Also, following the Japanese attack on the U. S. Navy base
at Pearl Harbor, Japanese Americans in the American West
were evacuated and interned in relocation camps. See
Exec. Order No. 9066, 3 CFR 1092 (1943). Over 120,000
were removed to camps beginning in 1942, and the last camp
that held Japanese Americans did not close until 1948. Na-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tional Park Service, Japanese American Life During Intern-
ment, www.nps.gov/articles/japanese-american-internment-
archeology.htm. In the interim, this Court endorsed the
practice. Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214 (1944).
Given the history of discrimination against Asian Ameri-
cans, especially their history with segregated schools, it
seems particularly incongruous to suggest that a past history
of segregationist policies toward blacks should be remedied
at the expense of Asian American college applicants.10 But
this problem is not limited to Asian Americans; more
broadly, universities' discriminatory policies burden millions

10
Even beyond Asian Americans, it is abundantly clear that the univer-
sity respondents' racial categories are vastly oversimplistic, as the opinion
of the Court and Justice Gorsuch's concurrence make clear. See ante,
at 215–216; post, at 291–293 (opinion of Gorsuch, J.). Their “affrmative
action” programs do not help Jewish, Irish, Polish, or other “white” ethnic
groups whose ancestors faced discrimination upon arrival in America, any
more than they help the descendants of those Japanese-American citizens
interned during World War II.
274 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

of applicants who are not responsible for the racial discrimi-
nation that sullied our Nation's past. That is why, “[i]n the
absence of special circumstances, the remedy for de jure
segregation ordinarily should not include educational pro-
grams for students who were not in school (or were even
alive) during the period of segregation.” Jenkins, 515 U. S.,
at 137 (Thomas, J., concurring). Today's 17-year-olds, after
all, did not live through the Jim Crow era, enact or enforce
segregation laws, or take any action to oppress or enslave
the victims of the past. Whatever their skin color, today's
youth simply are not responsible for instituting the segrega-
tion of the 20th century, and they do not shoulder the moral
debts of their ancestors. Our Nation should not punish to-
day's youth for the sins of the past.

IV
Far from advancing the cause of improved race relations
in our Nation, affrmative action highlights our racial differ-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ences with pernicious effect. In fact, recent history reveals
a disturbing pattern: Affrmative action policies appear to
have prolonged the asserted need for racial discrimination.
Parties and amici in these cases report that, in the nearly 50
years since Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, racial progress on campuses
adopting affrmative action admissions policies has stag-
nated, including making no meaningful progress toward a
colorblind goal since Grutter. See ante, at 212–213.
Rather, the legacy of Grutter appears to be ever increasing
and strident demands for yet more racially oriented
solutions.
A
It has become clear that sorting by race does not stop at
the admissions offce. In his Grutter opinion, Justice Scalia
criticized universities for “talk[ing] of multiculturalism and
racial diversity,” but supporting “tribalism and racial segre-
gation on their campuses,” including through “minority-only
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 275

Thomas, J., concurring

student organizations, separate minority housing oppor-
tunities, separate minority student centers, even separate
minority-only graduation ceremonies.” 539 U. S., at 349
(opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). This
trend has hardly abated with time, and today, such programs
are commonplace. See Brief for Gail Heriot et al. as Amici
Curiae 9. In fact, a recent study considering 173 schools
found that 43% of colleges offered segregated housing to stu-
dents of different races, 46% offered segregated orientation
programs, and 72% sponsored segregated graduation cere-
monies. D. Pierre & P. Wood, Neo-Segregation at Yale 16–
17 (2019); see also D. Pierre, Demands for Segregated Hous-
ing at Williams College Are Not News, Nat. Rev., May 8,
2019. In addition to contradicting the universities' claims
regarding the need for interracial interaction, see Brief for
National Association of Scholars as Amicus Curiae 4–12,
these trends increasingly encourage our Nation's youth to
Page Proof Pending Publication
view racial differences as important and segregation as
routine.
Meanwhile, these discriminatory policies risk creating new
prejudices and allowing old ones to fester. I previously ob-
served that “[t]here can be no doubt” that discriminatory af-
frmative action policies “injur[e] white and Asian applicants
who are denied admission because of their race.” Fisher I,
570 U. S., at 331 (concurring opinion). Petitioner here
clearly demonstrates this fact. Moreover, “no social science
has disproved the notion that this discrimination `engenders
attitudes of superiority or, alternatively, provokes resent-
ment among those who believe that they have been wronged
by the government's use of race.' ” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 373
(opinion of Thomas, J.) (quoting Adarand, 515 U. S., at 241
(opinion of Thomas, J.) (alterations omitted)). Applicants
denied admission to certain colleges may come to believe—
accurately or not—that their race was responsible for their
failure to attain a life-long dream. These individuals, and
276 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

others who wished for their success, may resent members of
what they perceive to be favored races, believing that the
successes of those individuals are unearned.
What, then, would be the endpoint of these affrmative ac-
tion policies? Not racial harmony, integration, or equality
under the law. Rather, these policies appear to be leading
to a world in which everyone is defned by their skin color,
demanding ever-increasing entitlements and preferences on
that basis. Not only is that exactly the kind of factionalism
that the Constitution was meant to safeguard against, see
The Federalist No. 10 (J. Madison), but it is a factionalism
based on ever-shifting sands.
That is because race is a social construct; we may each
identify as members of particular races for any number of
reasons, having to do with our skin color, our heritage, or
our cultural identity. And, over time, these ephemeral,
socially constructed categories have often shifted. For
Page Proof Pending Publication
example, whereas universities today would group all white
applicants together, white elites previously sought to exclude
Jews and other white immigrant groups from higher edu-
cation. In fact, it is impossible to look at an individual
and know defnitively his or her race; some who would con-
sider themselves black, for example, may be quite fair
skinned. Yet, university admissions policies ask individuals
to identify themselves as belonging to one of only a few
reductionist racial groups. With boxes for only “black,”
“white,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” or the ambiguous “other,” how
is a Middle Eastern person to choose? Someone from the
Philippines? See post, at 291–293 (Gorsuch, J., concurring).
Whichever choice he makes (in the event he chooses to re-
port a race at all), the form silos him into an artifcial cate-
gory. Worse, it sends a clear signal that the category
matters.
But, under our Constitution, race is irrelevant, as the
Court acknowledges. In fact, all racial categories are little
more than stereotypes, suggesting that immutable charac-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 277

Thomas, J., concurring

teristics somehow conclusively determine a person's ideol-
ogy, beliefs, and abilities. Of course, that is false. See ante,
at 219–221 (noting that the Court's Equal Protection Clause
jurisprudence forbids such stereotyping). Members of the
same race do not all share the exact same experiences and
viewpoints; far from it. A black person from rural Alabama
surely has different experiences than a black person from
Manhattan or a black frst-generation immigrant from Nige-
ria, in the same way that a white person from rural Vermont
has a different perspective than a white person from Hous-
ton, Texas. Yet, universities' racial policies suggest that ra-
cial identity “alone constitutes the being of the race or the
man.” J. Barzun, Race: A Study in Modern Superstition 114
(1937). That is the same naked racism upon which segrega-
tion itself was built. Small wonder, then, that these policies
are leading to increasing racial polarization and friction.
This kind of reductionist logic leads directly to the “disre-
Page Proof Pending Publication
gard for what does not jibe with preconceived theory,” pro-
viding a “cloa[k] to conceal complexity, argumen[t] to the
crowd for praising or damning without the trouble of going
into details”—such as details about an individual's ideas or
unique background. Ibid. Rather than forming a more
pluralistic society, these policies thus strip us of our individu-
ality and undermine the very diversity of thought that uni-
versities purport to seek.
The solution to our Nation's racial problems thus cannot
come from policies grounded in affrmative action or some
other conception of equity. Racialism simply cannot be un-
done by different or more racialism. Instead, the solution
announced in the second founding is incorporated in our Con-
stitution: that we are all equal, and should be treated equally
before the law without regard to our race. Only that prom-
ise can allow us to look past our differing skin colors and
identities and see each other for what we truly are: individu-
als with unique thoughts, perspectives, and goals, but with
equal dignity and equal rights under the law.
278 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

B
Justice Jackson has a different view. Rather than fo-
cusing on individuals as individuals, her dissent focuses on
the historical subjugation of black Americans, invoking sta-
tistical racial gaps to argue in favor of defning and categoriz-
ing individuals by their race. As she sees things, we are all
inexorably trapped in a fundamentally racist society, with
the original sin of slavery and the historical subjugation of
black Americans still determining our lives today. Post, at
384–408 (dissenting opinion). The panacea, she counsels, is
to unquestioningly accede to the view of elite experts and
reallocate society's riches by racial means as necessary to
“level the playing feld,” all as judged by racial metrics.
Post, at 408. I strongly disagree.
First, as stated above, any statistical gaps between the
average wealth of black and white Americans is constitution-
ally irrelevant. I, of course, agree that our society is not,
Page Proof Pending Publication
and has never been, colorblind. Post, at 385 (Jackson, J.,
dissenting); see also Plessy, 163 U. S., at 559 (Harlan, J., dis-
senting). People discriminate against one another for a
whole host of reasons. But, under the Fourteenth Amend-
ment, the law must disregard all racial distinctions:
“[I]n view of the Constitution, in the eye of the law,
there is in this country no superior, dominant, ruling
class of citizens. There is no caste here. Our Constitu-
tion is color-blind, and neither knows nor tolerates
classes among citizens. In respect of civil rights, all cit-
izens are equal before the law. The humblest is the
peer of the most powerful. The law regards man as
man, and takes no account of his surroundings or of his
color when his civil rights as guaranteed by the supreme
law of the land are involved.” Ibid.
With the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment, the peo-
ple of our Nation proclaimed that the law may not sort citi-
zens based on race. It is this principle that the Framers of
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 279

Thomas, J., concurring

the Fourteenth Amendment adopted in the wake of the Civil
War to fulfll the promise of equality under the law. And
it is this principle that has guaranteed a Nation of equal citi-
zens the privileges or immunities of citizenship and the equal
protection of the laws. To now dismiss it as “two-dimensional
fatness,” post, at 407 (Jackson, J., dissenting), is to abdicate
a sacred trust to ensure that our “honored dead . . . shall not
have died in vain.” A. Lincoln, Gettysburg Address (1863).
Yet, Justice Jackson would replace the second Founders'
vision with an organizing principle based on race. In fact,
on her view, almost all of life's outcomes may be unhesitat-
ingly ascribed to race. Post, at 406–408. This is so, she
writes, because of statistical disparities among different ra-
cial groups. See post, at 393–396. Even if some whites
have a lower household net worth than some blacks, what
matters to Justice Jackson is that the average white house-
hold has more wealth than the average black household.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Post, at 393–394.
This lore is not and has never been true. Even in the
segregated South where I grew up, individuals were not the
sum of their skin color. Then as now, not all disparities are
based on race; not all people are racist; and not all differences
between individuals are ascribable to race. Put simply, “the
fate of abstract categories of wealth statistics is not the same
as the fate of a given set of fesh-and-blood human beings.”
T. Sowell, Wealth, Poverty and Politics 333 (2016). Worse
still, Justice Jackson uses her broad observations about
statistical relationships between race and select measures of
health, wealth, and well-being to label all blacks as victims.
Her desire to do so is unfathomable to me. I cannot deny
the great accomplishments of black Americans, including
those who succeeded despite long odds.
Nor do Justice Jackson's statistics regarding a correla-
tion between levels of health, wealth, and well-being be-
tween selected racial groups prove anything. Of course,
none of those statistics are capable of drawing a direct causal
280 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

link between race—rather than socioeconomic status or any
other factor—and individual outcomes. So Justice Jack-
son supplies the link herself: the legacy of slavery and the
nature of inherited wealth. This, she claims, locks blacks
into a seemingly perpetual inferior caste. Such a view is
irrational; it is an insult to individual achievement and can-
cerous to young minds seeking to push through barriers,
rather than consign themselves to permanent victimhood.
If an applicant has less fnancial means (because of genera-
tional inheritance or otherwise), then surely a university
may take that into account. If an applicant has medical
struggles or a family member with medical concerns, a uni-
versity may consider that too. What it cannot do is use the
applicant's skin color as a heuristic, assuming that because
the applicant checks the box for “black” he therefore con-
forms to the university's monolithic and reductionist view of
an abstract, average black person.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Accordingly, Justice Jackson's race-infused world view
falls fat at each step. Individuals are the sum of their
unique experiences, challenges, and accomplishments. What
matters is not the barriers they face, but how they choose to
confront them. And their race is not to blame for every-
thing—good or bad—that happens in their lives. A con-
trary, myopic world view based on individuals' skin color to
the total exclusion of their personal choices is nothing short
of racial determinism.
Justice Jackson then builds from her faulty premise to call
for action, arguing that courts should defer to “experts” and
allow institutions to discriminate on the basis of race. Make
no mistake: Her dissent is not a vanguard of the innocent and
helpless. It is instead a call to empower privileged elites, who
will “tell us [what] is required to level the playing feld”
among castes and classifcations that they alone can divine.
Post, at 408; see also post, at 291–293 (Gorsuch, J., concur-
ring) (explaining the arbitrariness of these classifcations).
Then, after siloing us all into racial castes and pitting those
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 281

Thomas, J., concurring

castes against each other, the dissent somehow believes that
we will be able—at some undefned point—to “march for-
ward together” into some utopian vision. Post, at 408 (opin-
ion of Jackson, J.). Social movements that invoke these
sorts of rallying cries, historically, have ended disastrously.
Unsurprisingly, this tried-and-failed system defes both
law and reason. Start with the obvious: If social reorganiza-
tion in the name of equality may be justifed by the mere
fact of statistical disparities among racial groups, then that
reorganization must continue until these disparities are fully
eliminated, regardless of the reasons for the disparities and
the cost of their elimination. If blacks fail a test at higher
rates than their white counterparts (regardless of whether
the reason for the disparity has anything at all to do with
race), the only solution will be race-focused measures. If
those measures were to result in blacks failing at yet higher
rates, the only solution would be to double down. In fact,
Page Proof Pending Publication
there would seem to be no logical limit to what the govern-
ment may do to level the racial playing feld—outright
wealth transfers, quota systems, and racial preferences
would all seem permissible. In such a system, it would not
matter how many innocents suffer race-based injuries; all
that would matter is reaching the race-based goal.
Worse, the classifcations that Justice Jackson draws are
themselves race-based stereotypes. She focuses on two hy-
pothetical applicants, John and James, competing for admis-
sion to UNC. John is a white, seventh-generation legacy at
the school, while James is black and would be the frst in his
family to attend UNC. Post, at 385–386. Justice Jackson
argues that race-conscious admission programs are neces-
sary to adequately compare the two applicants. As an ini-
tial matter, it is not clear why James' race is the only factor
that could encourage UNC to admit him; his status as a frst-
generation college applicant seems to contextualize his appli-
cation. But, setting that aside, why is it that John should
be judged based on the actions of his great-great-great-
282 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

grandparents? And what would Justice Jackson say to
John when deeming him not as worthy of admission: Some
statistically signifcant number of white people had advan-
tages in college admissions seven generations ago, and you
have inherited their incurable sin?
Nor should we accept that John or James represents all
members of their respective races. All racial groups are
heterogeneous, and blacks are no exception—encompassing
northerners and southerners, rich and poor, and recent immi-
grants and descendants of slaves. See, e. g., T. Sowell, Eth-
nic America 220 (1981) (noting that the great success of West
Indian immigrants to the United States—disproportionate
among blacks more broadly—“seriously undermines the
proposition that color is a fatal handicap in the American
economy”). Eschewing the complexity that comes with in-
dividuality may make for an uncomplicated narrative, but
lumping people together and judging them based on assumed
inherited or ancestral traits is nothing but stereotyping.11
Page Proof Pending Publication
To further illustrate, let's expand the applicant pool be-
yond John and James. Consider Jack, a black applicant and
the son of a multimillionaire industrialist. In a world of
race-based preferences, James' seat could very well go to
Jack rather than John—both are black, after all. And what
about members of the numerous other racial and ethnic
groups in our Nation? What about Anne, the child of Chi-
nese immigrants? Jacob, the grandchild of Holocaust survi-
vors who escaped to this Nation with nothing and faced dis-
crimination upon arrival? Or Thomas, the great-grandchild
of Irish immigrants escaping famine? While articulating
her black and white world (literally), Justice Jackson
ignores the experiences of other immigrant groups (like

11
Again, universities may offer admissions preferences to students from
disadvantaged backgrounds, and they need not withhold those preferences
from students who happen to be members of racial minorities. Universi-
ties may not, however, assume that all members of certain racial minori-
ties are disadvantaged.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 283

Thomas, J., concurring

Asians, see supra, at 272–273) and white communities that
have faced historic barriers.
Though Justice Jackson seems to think that her race-
based theory can somehow beneft everyone, it is an immuta-
ble fact that “every time the government uses racial criteria
to `bring the races together,' someone gets excluded, and the
person excluded suffers an injury solely because of his or
her race.” Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at 759 (Thomas, J.,
concurring) (citation omitted). Indeed, Justice Jackson
seems to have no response—no explanation at all—for the
people who will shoulder that burden. How, for example,
would Justice Jackson explain the need for race-based
preferences to the Chinese student who has worked hard his
whole life, only to be denied college admission in part be-
cause of his skin color? If such a burden would seem diff-
cult to impose on a bright-eyed young person, that's because
it should be. History has taught us to abhor theories that
Page Proof Pending Publication
call for elites to pick racial winners and losers in the name
of sociological experimentation.
Nor is it clear what another few generations of race-
conscious college admissions may be expected to accomplish.
Even today, affrmative action programs that offer an admis-
sions boost to black and Hispanic students discriminate
against those who identify themselves as members of other
races that do not receive such preferential treatment. Must
others in the future make sacrifces to relevel the playing
feld for this new phase of racial subordination? And then,
out of whose lives should the debt owed to those further
victims be repaid? This vision of meeting social racism with
government-imposed racism is thus self-defeating, resulting
in a never-ending cycle of victimization. There is no reason
to continue down that path. In the wake of the Civil War,
the Framers of the Fourteenth Amendment charted a way
out: a colorblind Constitution that requires the government
to, at long last, put aside its citizens' skin color and focus on
their individual achievements.
284 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

C
Universities' recent experiences confrm the effcacy of a
colorblind rule. To start, universities prohibited from en-
gaging in racial discrimination by state law continue to enroll
racially diverse classes by race-neutral means. For exam-
ple, the University of California purportedly recently ad-
mitted its “most diverse undergraduate class ever,” despite
California's ban on racial preferences. T. Watanabe, UC Ad-
mits Largest, Most Diverse Class Ever, But It Was Harder
To Get Accepted, L. A. Times, July 20, 2021, p. A1. Simi-
larly, the University of Michigan's 2021 incoming class was
“among the university's most racially and ethnically diverse
classes, with 37% of frst-year students identifying as per-
sons of color.” S. Dodge, Largest Ever Student Body at
University of Michigan This Fall, Offcials Say, MLive.com
(Oct. 22, 2021), https://www.mlive.com/news/ann-arbor/2021/
10/largest-ever-student-body-at-university-of-michigan-this-
Page Proof Pending Publication
fall-offcials-say.html. In fact, at least one set of studies sug-
gests that, “when we consider the higher education system
as a whole, it is clear that the vast majority of schools would
be as racially integrated, or more racially integrated, under
a system of no preferences than under a system of large pref-
erences.” Brief for Richard Sander as Amicus Curiae 26.
Race-neutral policies may thus achieve the same benefts of
racial harmony and equality without any of the burdens and
strife generated by affrmative action policies.
In fact, meritocratic systems have long refuted bigoted
misperceptions of what black students can accomplish. I
have always viewed “higher education's purpose as impart-
ing knowledge and skills to students, rather than a commu-
nal, rubber-stamp, credentialing process.” Grutter, 539
U. S., at 371–372 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in
part). And, I continue to strongly believe (and have never
doubted) that “blacks can achieve in every avenue of Ameri-
can life without the meddling of university administrators.”
Id., at 350. Meritocratic systems, with objective grading
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 285

Thomas, J., concurring

scales, are critical to that belief. Such scales have always
been a great equalizer—offering a metric for achievement
that bigotry could not alter. Racial preferences take away
this beneft, eliminating the very metric by which those who
have the most to prove can clearly demonstrate their accom-
plishments—both to themselves and to others.
Schools' successes, like students' grades, also provide ob-
jective proof of ability. Historically Black Colleges and Uni-
versities (HBCUs) do not have a large amount of racial
diversity, but they demonstrate a marked ability to improve
the lives of their students. To this day, they have proved
“to be extremely effective in graduating Black students, par-
ticularly in STEM,” where “HBCUs represent seven of the
top eight institutions that graduate the highest number of
Black undergraduate students who go on to earn [science and
engineering] doctorates.” W. Wondwossen, The Science Be-
hind HBCU Success, Nat. Science Foundation (Sept. 24,
2020), https:// beta.nsf.gov/science-matters/science-behind-
Page Proof Pending Publication
hbcu-success. “HBCUs have produced 40% of all Black en-
gineers.” Presidential Proclamation No. 10451, 87 Fed. Reg.
57567 (2022). And, they “account for 80% of Black judges,
50% of Black doctors, and 50% of Black lawyers.” M. Ham-
mond, L. Owens, & B. Gulko, Social Mobility Outcomes
for HBCU Alumni, United Negro College Fund 4 (2021)
(Hammond), https://cdn.uncf.org/wp-content/uploads/Social-
Mobility-Report-FINAL.pdf; see also 87 Fed. Reg. 57567
(placing the percentage of black doctors even higher, at 70%).
In fact, Xavier University, an HBCU with only a small per-
centage of white students, has had better success at helping
its low-income students move into the middle class than Har-
vard has. See Hammond 14; see also Brief for Oklahoma et al.
as Amici Curiae 18. And, each of the top 10 HBCUs has a
success rate above the national average. Hammond 14.12
12
Such black achievement in “racially isolated” environments is neither
new nor isolated to higher education. See T. Sowell, Education: Assump-
tions Versus History 7–38 (1986). As I have previously observed, in the
286 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Thomas, J., concurring

Why, then, would this Court need to allow other universi-
ties to racially discriminate? Not for the betterment of
those black students, it would seem. The hard work of
HBCUs and their students demonstrate that “black schools
can function as the center and symbol of black communities,
and provide examples of independent black leadership,
success, and achievement. ” Jenkins, 515 U. S., at 122
(Thomas, J., concurring) (citing Fordice, 505 U. S., at 748
(Thomas, J., concurring)). And, because race-conscious col-
lege admissions are plainly not necessary to serve even the
interests of blacks, there is no justifcation to compel such
programs more broadly. See Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at
765 (Thomas, J., concurring).
* * *
The great failure of this country was slavery and its prog-
eny. And, the tragic failure of this Court was its misinter-
pretation of the Reconstruction Amendments, as Justice
Page Proof Pending Publication
Harlan predicted in Plessy. We should not repeat this mis-
take merely because we think, as our predecessors thought,
that the present arrangements are superior to the
Constitution.

years preceding Brown, the “most prominent example of an exemplary
black school was Dunbar High School,” America's frst public high school
for black students. Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle
School Dist. No. 1, 551 U. S. 701, 763 (2007) (concurring opinion). Known
for its academics, the school attracted black students from across the
Washington, D. C., area. “[I]n the period 1918–1923, Dunbar graduates
earned ffteen degrees from Ivy League colleges, and ten degrees from
Amherst, Williams, and Wesleyan.” Sowell, Education: Assumptions Ver-
sus History, at 29. Dunbar produced the frst black General in the U. S.
Army, the frst black Federal Court Judge, and the frst black Presidential
Cabinet member. A. Stewart, First Class: The Legacy of Dunbar 2
(2013). Indeed, efforts toward racial integration ultimately precipitated
the school's decline. When the D. C. schools moved to a neighborhood-
based admissions model, Dunbar was no longer able to maintain its prior
admissions policies—and “[m]ore than 80 years of quality education came
to an abrupt end.” T. Sowell, Wealth, Poverty and Politics 194 (2016).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 287

Gorsuch, J., concurring

The Court's opinion rightly makes clear that Grutter
is, for all intents and purposes, overruled. And, it sees the
universities' admissions policies for what they are: rudder-
less, race-based preferences designed to ensure a particular
racial mix in their entering classes. Those policies fy in the
face of our colorblind Constitution and our Nation's equality
ideal. In short, they are plainly—and boldly—unconstitu-
tional. See Brown II, 349 U. S., at 298 (noting that the
Brown case one year earlier had “declare[d] the fundamental
principle that racial discrimination in public education is
unconstitutional”).
While I am painfully aware of the social and economic rav-
ages which have befallen my race and all who suffer discrimi-
nation, I hold out enduring hope that this country will live
up to its principles so clearly enunciated in the Declaration
of Independence and the Constitution of the United States:
that all men are created equal, are equal citizens, and must
be treated equally before the law.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas joins,
concurring.
For many students, an acceptance letter from Harvard or
the University of North Carolina is a ticket to a brighter
future. Tens of thousands of applicants compete for a small
number of coveted spots. For some time, both universities
have decided which applicants to admit or reject based in
part on race. Today, the Court holds that the Equal Protec-
tion Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not tolerate
this practice. I write to emphasize that Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 does not either.

I
“[F]ew pieces of federal legislation rank in signifcance
with the Civil Rights Act of 1964.” Bostock v. Clayton
County, 590 U. S. –––, ––– (2020). Title VI of that law con-
tains terms as powerful as they are easy to understand: “No
288 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

person in the United States shall, on the ground of race,
color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in,
be denied the benefts of, or be subjected to discrimination
under any program or activity receiving Federal fnancial
assistance.” 42 U. S. C. § 2000d. The message for these
cases is unmistakable. Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA)
brought claims against Harvard and UNC under Title VI.
That law applies to both institutions, as they elect to receive
millions of dollars of federal assistance annually. And the
trial records reveal that both schools routinely discriminate
on the basis of race when choosing new students—exactly
what the law forbids.
A
When a party seeks relief under a statute, our task is to
apply the law's terms as a reasonable reader would have un-
derstood them at the time Congress enacted them. “After
all, only the words on the page constitute the law adopted
Page Proof Pending Publication
by Congress and approved by the President.” Bostock, 590
U. S., at –––.
The key phrases in Title VI at issue here are “subjected
to discrimination” and “on the ground of.” Begin with the
frst. To “discriminate” against a person meant in 1964
what it means today: to “trea[t] that individual worse than
others who are similarly situated.” Id., at –––; see also
Webster's New International Dictionary 745 (2d ed. 1954)
(“[t]o make a distinction” or “[t]o make a difference in treat-
ment or favor (of one as compared with others)”); Webster's
Third New International Dictionary 648 (1961) (“to make a
difference in treatment or favor on a class or categorical
basis”). The provision of Title VI before us, this Court has
also held, “prohibits only intentional discrimination.” Alex-
ander v. Sandoval, 532 U. S. 275, 280 (2001). From this, we
can safely say that Title VI forbids a recipient of federal
funds from intentionally treating one person worse than an-
other similarly situated person on the ground of race, color,
or national origin.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 289

Gorsuch, J., concurring

What does the statute's second critical phrase—“on the
ground of ”—mean? Again, the answer is uncomplicated: It
means “because of.” See, e. g., Webster's New World Dic-
tionary 640 (1960) (“because of ”); Webster's Third New In-
ternational Dictionary, at 1002 (defning “grounds” as “a
logical condition, physical cause, or metaphysical basis”).
“Because of ” is a familiar phrase in the law, one we often
apply in cases arising under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and
one that we usually understand to invoke “the `simple' and
`traditional' standard of but-for causation.” Bostock, 590
U. S., at ––– (quoting University of Tex. Southwestern Medi-
cal Center v. Nassar, 570 U. S. 338, 346, 360 (2013); some
internal quotation marks omitted). The but-for-causation
standard is a “sweeping” one too. Bostock, 590 U. S., at –––.
A defendant's actions need not be the primary or proximate
cause of the plaintiff 's injury to qualify. Nor may a defend-
ant avoid liability “just by citing some other factor that con-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tributed to” the plaintiff's loss. Id., at –––. All that mat-
ters is that the plaintiff's injury would not have happened
but for the defendant's conduct. Ibid.
Now put these pieces back together and a clear rule
emerges. Title VI prohibits a recipient of federal funds
from intentionally treating one person worse than another
similarly situated person because of his race, color, or na-
tional origin. It does not matter if the recipient can point
to “some other . . . factor” that contributed to its decision to
disfavor that individual. Id., at ––– – –––. It does not mat-
ter if the recipient discriminates in order to advance some
further benign “intention” or “motivation.” Id., at –––; see
also Automobile Workers v. Johnson Controls, Inc., 499 U. S.
187, 199 (1991) (“the absence of a malevolent motive does not
convert a facially discriminatory policy into a neutral policy
with a discriminatory effect” or “alter [its] intentionally dis-
criminatory character”). Nor does it matter if the recipient
discriminates against an individual member of a protected
class with the idea that doing so might “favor” the interests
290 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

of that “class” as a whole or otherwise “promot[e] equality
at the group level.” Bostock, 590 U. S., at –––, –––. Title
VI prohibits a recipient of federal funds from intentionally
treating any individual worse even in part because of
his race, color, or national origin and without regard to
any other reason or motive the recipient might assert.
Without question, Congress in 1964 could have taken the
law in various directions. But to safeguard the civil rights
of all Americans, Congress chose a simple and profound
rule. One holding that a recipient of federal funds may
never discriminate based on race, color, or national origin—
period.
If this exposition of Title VI sounds familiar, it should.
Just next door, in Title VII, Congress made it “unlawful . . .
for an employer . . . to discriminate against any individual . . .
because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or na-
tional origin.” § 2000e–2(a)(1). Appreciating the breadth
of this provision, just three years ago this Court read its
Page Proof Pending Publication
essentially identical terms the same way. See Bostock, 590
U. S., at ––– – –––. This Court has long recognized, too, that
when Congress uses the same terms in the same statute, we
should presume they “have the same meaning.” IBP, Inc.
v. Alvarez, 546 U. S. 21, 34 (2005). And that presumption
surely makes sense here, for as Justice Stevens recognized
years ago, “[b]oth Title VI and Title VII” codify a categorical
rule of “individual equality, without regard to race.” Re-
gents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 416, n. 19 (1978)
(opinion concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in
part) (emphasis deleted).
B
Applying Title VI to the cases now before us, the result is
plain. The parties debate certain details of Harvard's and
UNC's admissions practices. But no one disputes that both
universities operate “program[s] or activit[ies] receiving Fed-
eral fnancial assistance.” § 2000d. No one questions that
both institutions consult race when making their admissions
decisions. And no one can doubt that both schools intention-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 291

Gorsuch, J., concurring

ally treat some applicants worse than others at least in part
because of their race.
1
Start with how Harvard and UNC use race. Like many
colleges and universities, those schools invite interested stu-
dents to complete the Common Application. As part of that
process, the trial records show, applicants are prompted to
tick one or more boxes to explain “how you identify your-
self.” 4 App. in No. 21–707, p. 1732. The available choices
are American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or Afri-
can American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacifc Islander;
Hispanic or Latino; or White. Applicants can write in fur-
ther details if they choose. Ibid.; see also 397 F. Supp. 3d
126, 137 (Mass. 2019); 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 596 (MDNC 2021).
Where do these boxes come from? Bureaucrats. A fed-
eral interagency commission devised this scheme of classif-
cations in the 1970s to facilitate data collection. See D.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Bernstein, The Modern American Law of Race, 94 S. Cal. L.
Rev. 171, 196–202 (2021); see also 43 Fed. Reg. 19269 (1978).
That commission acted “without any input from anthropolo-
gists, sociologists, ethnologists, or other experts.” Brief for
David E. Bernstein as Amicus Curiae 3 (Bernstein Amicus
Brief). Recognizing the limitations of their work, federal
regulators cautioned that their classifcations “should not be
interpreted as being scientifc or anthropological in nature,
nor should they be viewed as determinants of eligibility for
participation in any Federal program.” 43 Fed. Reg. 19269
(emphasis added). Despite that warning, others eventually
used this classifcation system for that very purpose—to
“sor[t] out winners and losers in a process that, by the end
of the century, would grant preference[s] in jobs . . . and
university admissions.” H. Graham, The Origins of Offcial
Minority Designation, in The New Race Question: How the
Census Counts Multiracial Individuals 289 (J. Perlmann &
M. Waters eds. 2002).
These classifications rest on incoherent stereotypes.
Take the “Asian” category. It sweeps into one pile East
292 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

Asians (e. g., Chinese, Korean, Japanese) and South Asians
(e. g., Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi), even though together
they constitute about 60% of the world's population. Bern-
stein Amicus Brief 2, 5. This agglomeration of so many
peoples paves over countless differences in “language,” “cul-
ture,” and historical experience. Id., at 5–6. It does so
even though few would suggest that all such persons share
“similar backgrounds and similar ideas and experiences.”
Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin, 579 U. S. 365, 414
(2016) (Alito, J., dissenting). Consider, as well, the devel-
opment of a separate category for “Native Hawaiian or Other
Pacifc Islander.” It seems federal offcials disaggregated
these groups from the “Asian” category only in the 1990s and
only “in response to political lobbying.” Bernstein Amicus
Brief 9–10. And even that category contains its curiosities.
It appears, for example, that Filipino Americans remain clas-
sifed as “Asian” rather than “Other Pacifc Islander.” See
Page Proof Pending Publication
4 App. in No. 21–707, at 1732.
The remaining classifcations depend just as much on irra-
tional stereotypes. The “Hispanic” category covers those
whose ancestral language is Spanish, Basque, or Catalan—
but it also covers individuals of Mayan, Mixtec, or Zapotec
descent who do not speak any of those languages and whose
ancestry does not trace to the Iberian Peninsula but bears
deep ties to the Americas. See Bernstein Amicus Brief 10–
11. The “White” category sweeps in anyone from “Europe,
Asia west of India, and North Africa.” Id., at 14. That in-
cludes those of Welsh, Norwegian, Greek, Italian, Moroccan,
Lebanese, Turkish, or Iranian descent. It embraces an Iraqi
or Ukrainian refugee as much as a member of the British
royal family. Meanwhile, “Black or African American” cov-
ers everyone from a descendant of enslaved persons who
grew up poor in the rural South, to a frst-generation child
of wealthy Nigerian immigrants, to a Black-identifying appli-
cant with multiracial ancestry whose family lives in a typical
American suburb. See id., at 15–16.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 293

Gorsuch, J., concurring

If anything, attempts to divide us all up into a handful of
groups have become only more incoherent with time.
American families have become increasingly multicultural, a
fact that has led to unseemly disputes about whether some-
one is really a member of a certain racial or ethnic group.
There are decisions denying Hispanic status to someone of
Italian-Argentine descent, Marinelli Constr. Corp. v. New
York, 200 App. Div. 2d 294, 296–297, 613 N. Y. S. 2d 1000,
1002 (1994), as well as someone with one Mexican grand-
parent, Major Concrete Constr., Inc. v. Erie County, 134
App. Div. 2d 872, 873, 521 N. Y. S. 2d 959, 960 (1987). Yet
there are also decisions granting Hispanic status to a Sephar-
dic Jew whose ancestors fed Spain centuries ago, In re
Rothschild-Lynn Legal & Fin. Servs., SBA No. 499, 1995 WL
542398, *2–*4 (Apr. 12, 1995), and bestowing a “sort of His-
panic” status on a person with one Cuban grandparent,
Bernstein, 94 S. Cal. L. Rev., at 232 (discussing In re Kist
Corp., 99 F. C. C. 2d 173, 193 (1984)).
Page Proof Pending Publication
Given all this, is it any surprise that members of certain
groups sometimes try to conceal their race or ethnicity? Or
that a cottage industry has sprung up to help college appli-
cants do so? We are told, for example, that one effect of
lumping so many people of so many disparate backgrounds
into the “Asian” category is that many colleges consider
“Asians” to be “overrepresented” in their admission pools.
Brief for Asian American Coalition for Education et al. as
Amici Curiae 12–14, 18–19. Paid advisors, in turn, tell high
school students of Asian descent to downplay their heritage
to maximize their odds of admission. “ `We will make them
appear less Asian when they apply,' ” one promises. Id., at
16. “ `If you're given an option, don't attach a photograph
to your application,' ” another instructs. Ibid.1 It is diffi-
1
See also A. Qin, Aiming for an Ivy and Trying to Seem `Less Asian,'
N. Y. Times, Dec. 3, 2022, p. A18, col. 1 (“[T]he rumor that students can
appear `too Asian' has hardened into a kind of received wisdom within
many Asian American communities,” and “college admissions consultants
294 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

cult to imagine those who receive this advice would fnd com-
fort in a bald (and mistaken) assurance that “race-conscious
admissions beneft . . . the Asian American community,” post,
at 375–376 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting). See 397 F. Supp. 3d,
at 178 (district court fnding that “overall” Harvard's race-
conscious admissions policy “results in fewer Asian Ameri-
can[s]” being admitted). And it is hard not to wonder
whether those left paying the steepest price are those least
able to afford it—children of families with no chance of hiring
the kind of consultants who know how to play this game.2

2
Just as there is no question Harvard and UNC consider
race in their admissions processes, there is no question both
schools intentionally treat some applicants worse than others
because of their race. Both schools frequently choose to
award a “tip” or a “plus” to applicants from certain racial
Page Proof Pending Publication
groups but not others. These tips or plusses are just what
they sound like—“factors that might tip an applicant into [an]
admitted class.” 980 F. 3d 157, 170 (CA1 2020). And in a
process where applicants compete for a limited pool of spots,
“[a] tip for one race” necessarily works as “a penalty against
other races.” Brief for Economists as Amici Curiae 20.
As the trial court in the Harvard case put it: “Race conscious
admissions will always penalize to some extent the groups
that are not being advantaged by the process. ” 397
F. Supp. 3d, at 202–203.
[have] spoke[n] about trying to steer their Asian American clients away
from so-called typically Asian activities such as Chinese language school,
piano and Indian classical instruments.”).
2
Though the matter did not receive much attention in the proceedings
below, it appears that the Common Application has evolved in recent years
to allow applicants to choose among more options to describe their back-
grounds. The decisions below do not disclose how much Harvard or UNC
made use of this further information (or whether they make use of it now).
But neither does it make a difference. Title VI no more tolerates discrim-
ination based on 60 racial categories than it does 6.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 295

Gorsuch, J., concurring

Consider how this plays out at Harvard. In a given year,
the university's undergraduate program may receive 60,000
applications for roughly 1,600 spots. Tr. of Oral Arg. in No.
20–1199, p. 60. Admissions offcers read each application
and rate students across several categories: academic, extra-
curricular, athletic, school support, personal, and overall.
980 F. 3d, at 167. Harvard says its admissions offcers
“should not” consider race or ethnicity when assigning the
“personal” rating. Id., at 169 (internal quotation marks
omitted). But Harvard did not make this instruction ex-
plicit until after SFFA fled this suit. Ibid. And, in any
event, Harvard concedes that its admissions offcers “can and
do take an applicant's race into account when assigning an
overall rating.” Ibid. (emphasis added). At that stage, the
lower courts found, applicants of certain races may receive a
“tip” in their favor. Ibid.
The next step in the process is committee review. Re-
Page Proof Pending Publication
gional subcommittees may consider an applicant's race when
deciding whether to recommend admission. Id., at 169–170.
So, too, may the full admissions committee. Ibid. As the
Court explains, that latter committee “discusses the relative
breakdown of applicants by race.” Ante, at 194. And “if at
some point in the admissions process it appears that a group
is notably underrepresented or has suffered a dramatic drop
off relative to the prior year, the [committee] may decide to
give additional attention to applications from students
within that group.” 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 146.
The last step is “lopping,” where the admissions committee
trims the list of “prospective admits” before settling on a
fnal class. Id., at 144 (internal quotation marks omitted).
At this stage, again, the committee considers the “character-
istics of the admitted class,” including its “racial composi-
tion.” Ibid. Once more, too, the committee may consider
each applicant's race in deciding whom to “lop off.” Ibid.
All told, the district court made a number of fndings about
Harvard's use of race-based tips. For example: “[T]he tip[s]
296 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

given for race impac[t] who among the highly-qualifed stu-
dents in the applicant pool will be selected for admission.”
Id., at 178. “At least 10% of Harvard's admitted class . . .
would most likely not be admitted in the absence of Har-
vard's race-conscious admissions process.” Ibid. Race-
based tips are “determinative” in securing favorable deci-
sions for a signifcant percentage of “African American and
Hispanic applicants,” the “primary benefciaries” of this sys-
tem. Ibid. There are clear losers too. “[W]hite and Asian
American applicants are unlikely to receive a meaningful
race-based tip,” id., at 190, n. 56, and “overall” the school's
race-based practices “resul[t] in fewer Asian American and
white students being admitted,” id., at 178. For these rea-
sons and others still, the district court concluded that “Har-
vard's admissions process is not facially neutral” with re-
spect to race. Id., at 189–190; see also id., at 190, n. 56 (“The
policy cannot . . . be considered facially neutral from a Title
Page Proof Pending Publication
VI perspective.”).
Things work similarly at UNC. In a typical year, about
44,000 applicants vie for 4,200 spots. 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 595.
Admissions offcers read each application and rate prospec-
tive students along eight dimensions: academic program-
ming, academic performance, standardized tests, extracurric-
ulars, special talents, essays, background, and personal. Id.,
at 600. The district court found that “UNC's admissions
policies mandate that race is taken into consideration” in this
process as a “ `plus' facto[r].” Id., at 594–595. It is a plus
that is “sometimes” awarded to “underrepresented minority”
or “URM” candidates—a group UNC defnes to include
“ `those students identifying themselves as African American
or [B]lack; American Indian or Alaska Native; or Hispanic,
Latino, or Latina,' ” but not Asian or white students. Id.,
at 591–592, n. 7, 601.
At UNC, the admissions offcers' decisions to admit or
deny are “ `provisionally fnal.' ” Ante, at 196 (opinion for
the Court). The decisions become truly fnal only after a
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 297

Gorsuch, J., concurring

committee approves or rejects them. 567 F. Supp. 3d, at
599. That committee may consider an applicant's race too.
Id., at 607. In the end, the district court found that “race
plays a role”—perhaps even “a determinative role”—in the
decision to admit or deny some “URM students.” Id., at
634; see also id., at 662 (“race may tip the scale”). Nor is
this an accident. As at Harvard, offcials at UNC have made
a “deliberate decision” to employ race-conscious admissions
practices. Id., at 588–589.
While the district courts' fndings tell the full story, one
can also get a glimpse from aggregate statistics. Consider
the chart in the Court's opinion collecting Harvard's data
for the period 2009 to 2018. Ante, at 222. The racial com-
position of each incoming class remained steady over that
time—remarkably so. The proportion of African Ameri-
cans hovered between 10% and 12%; the proportion of His-
panics between 8% and 12%; and the proportion of Asian
Page Proof Pending Publication
Americans between 17% and 20%. Ibid. Might this merely
refect the demographics of the school's applicant pool? Cf.
post, at 350–351 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). Perhaps—at
least assuming the applicant pool looks much the same each
year and the school rather mechanically admits applicants
based on objective criteria. But the possibility that it in-
stead betrays the school's persistent focus on numbers of this
race and numbers of that race is entirely consistent with the
fndings recounted above. See, e. g., 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 146
(“if at some point in the admissions process it appears that
a group is notably underrepresented or has suffered a dra-
matic drop off relative to the prior year, the [committee] may
decide to give additional attention to applications from stu-
dents within that group”); cf. ante, at 222–223, n. 7 (opinion
for the Court).
C
Throughout this litigation, the parties have spent less time
contesting these facts than debating other matters.
298 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

For example, the parties debate how much of a role race
plays in admissions at Harvard and UNC. Both schools in-
sist that they consider race as just one of many factors when
making admissions decisions in their self-described “holistic”
review of each applicant. SFFA responds with trial evi-
dence showing that, whatever label the universities use to
describe their processes, they intentionally consult race and,
by design, their race-based tips and plusses beneft appli-
cants of certain groups to the detriment of others. See
Brief for Petitioner 20–35, 40–45.
The parties also debate the reasons both schools consult
race. SFFA observes that, in the 1920s, Harvard began
moving away from “test scores” and toward “plac[ing]
greater emphasis on character, ftness, and other subjective
criteria.” Id., at 12–13 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Harvard made this move, SFFA asserts, because President
A. Lawrence Lowell and other university leaders had be-
Page Proof Pending Publication
come “alarmed by the growing number of Jewish students
who were testing in,” and they sought some way to cap the
number of Jewish students without “ `stat[ing] frankly' ” that
they were “ `directly excluding all [Jews] beyond a certain
percentage.' ” Id., at 12; see also 3 App. in No. 20–1199,
pp. 1131–1133. SFFA contends that Harvard's current “ho-
listic” approach to admissions works similarly to disguise the
school's efforts to assemble classes with a particular racial
composition—and, in particular, to limit the number of Asian
Americans it admits. Brief for Petitioner 12–14, 25–32.
For its part, Harvard expresses regret for its past practices
while denying that they resemble its current ones. Tr. of
Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, at 51. And both schools insist that
their student bodies would lack suffcient diversity without
race-conscious admissions. Brief for Respondent in No. 20–
1199, pp. 52–54; Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–
707, pp. 54–59.
When it comes to defning and measuring diversity, the
parties spar too. SFFA observes that the racial categories
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 299

Gorsuch, J., concurring

the universities employ in the name of diversity do not begin
to refect the differences that exist within each group. See
Part I–B–1, supra. Instead, they lump together white and
Asian students from privileged backgrounds with “Jewish,
Irish, Polish, or other `white' ethnic groups whose ancestors
faced discrimination” and “descendants of those Japanese-
American citizens interned during World War II.” Ante, at
273, n. 10 (Thomas, J., concurring). Even putting all that
aside, SFFA stresses that neither Harvard nor UNC is will-
ing to quantify how much racial and ethnic diversity they
think suffcient. And, SFFA contends, the universities may
not wish to do so because their stated goal implies a desire
to admit some fxed number (or quota) of students from each
racial group. See Brief for Petitioner 77, 80; Tr. of Oral Arg.
in No. 21–707, p. 180. Besides, SFFA asks, if it is diversity
the schools are after, why do they exhibit so little interest
in other (non-racial) markers of it? See Brief for Petitioner
Page Proof Pending Publication
78, 83–86. While Harvard professes interest in socioeco-
nomic diversity, for example, SFFA points to trial testimony
that there are “23 times as many rich kids on campus as poor
kids.” 2 App. in No. 20–1199, at 756.3
Even beyond all this, the parties debate the availability of
alternatives. SFFA contends that both Harvard and UNC
could obtain signifcant racial diversity without resorting to
race-based admissions practices. Many other universities
across the country, SFFA points out, have sought to do just
that by reducing legacy preferences, increasing fnancial aid,
and the like. Brief for Petitioner 85–86; see also Brief for

3
See also E. Bazelon, Why Is Affrmative Action in Peril? One Man's
Decision, N. Y. Times Magazine, Feb. 15, 2023, p. 41 (“In the Ivy League,
children whose parents are in the top 1 percent of the income distribution
are 77 times as likely to attend as those whose parents are in the bottom
20 percent of the income bracket.”); ibid. (“[A] common critique . . . is that
schools have made a bargain with economic elites of all races, with the
exception of Asian Americans, who are underrepresented compared with
their level of academic achievement.”).
300 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

Oklahoma et al. as Amici Curiae 9–19.4 As part of its af-
frmative case, SFFA also submitted evidence that Harvard
could nearly replicate the current racial composition of its
student body without resorting to race-based practices if it:
(1) provided socioeconomically disadvantaged applicants just
half of the tip it gives recruited athletes; and (2) eliminated
tips for the children of donors, alumni, and faculty. Brief for
Petitioner 33–34, 81; see 2 App. in No. 20–1199, at 763–765,
774–775. Doing these two things would barely affect the
academic credentials of each incoming class. Brief for Peti-
tioner 33–34. And it would not require Harvard to end tips
for recruited athletes, who as a group are much weaker aca-
demically than non-athletes.5

4
The principal dissent chides me for “reach[ing] beyond the factfnding
below” by acknowledging SFFA's argument that other universities have
employed various race-neutral tools. Post, at 345, n. 25 (opinion of Soto-
Page Proof Pending Publication
mayor, J.). Contrary to the dissent's suggestion, however, I do not pur-
port to fnd facts about those practices; all I do here is recount what SFFA
has argued every step of the way. See, e. g., Brief for Petitioner 55, 66–
67; 1 App. in No. 20–1199, pp. 415–416, 440; 2 App. in No. 21–707, pp. 551–
552. Nor, of course, is it somehow remarkable to acknowledge the parties'
arguments. The principal dissent itself recites SFFA's arguments about
Harvard's and other universities' practices too. See, e. g., post, at 346, 365
(opinion of Sotomayor, J.). In truth, it is the dissent that reaches beyond
the factfnding below when it argues from studies recited in a dissenting
opinion in a different case decided almost a decade ago. Post, at 345, n. 25
(opinion of Sotomayor, J.); see also post, at 334–337 (opinion of Soto-
mayor, J.) (further venturing beyond the trial records to discuss data
about employment, income, wealth, home ownership, and healthcare).
5
See Brief for Defense of Freedom Institute for Policy Studies as Ami-
cus Curiae 11 (recruited athletes make up less than 1% of Harvard's appli-
cant pool but represent more than 10% of the admitted class); P. Arcidia-
cono, J. Kinsler, & T. Ransom, Legacy and Athlete Preferences at Harvard,
40 J. Lab. Econ. 133, 141, n. 17 (2021) (recruited athletes were the only
applicants admitted with the lowest possible academic rating and 79% of
recruited athletes with the next lowest rating were admitted compared to
0.02% of other applicants with the same rating).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 301

Gorsuch, J., concurring

At trial, however, Harvard resisted this proposal. Its
preferences for the children of donors, alumni, and faculty
are no help to applicants who cannot boast of their parents'
good fortune or trips to the alumni tent all their lives.
While race-neutral on their face, too, these preferences un-
doubtedly beneft white and wealthy applicants the most.
See 980 F. 3d, at 171. Still, Harvard stands by them. See
Brief for Respondent in No. 20–1199, at 52–54; Tr. of Oral
Arg. in No. 21–1199, at 48–49. As a result, athletes and the
children of donors, alumni, and faculty—groups that together
“make up less than 5% of applicants to Harvard”—constitute
“around 30% of the applicants admitted each year.” 980
F. 3d, at 171.
To be sure, the parties' debates raise some hard-to-answer
questions. Just how many admissions decisions turn on
race? And what really motivates the universities' race-
conscious admissions policies and their refusal to modify
other preferential practices? Fortunately, Title VI does not
Page Proof Pending Publication
require an answer to any of these questions. It does not ask
how much a recipient of federal funds discriminates. It does
not scrutinize a recipient's reasons or motives for discrimi-
nating. Instead, the law prohibits covered institutions from
intentionally treating any individual worse even in part be-
cause of race. So yes, of course, the universities consider
many non-racial factors in their admissions processes too.
And perhaps they mean well when they favor certain candi-
dates over others based on the color of their skin. But even
if all that is true, their conduct violates Title VI just the
same. See Part I–A, supra; see also Bostock, 590 U. S., at
–––, ––– – –––.
D
The principal dissent contends that this understanding of
Title VI is contrary to precedent. Post, at 342, n. 21 (opinion
of Sotomayor, J.). But the dissent does not dispute that
everything said here about the meaning of Title VI tracks
302 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

this Court's precedent in Bostock interpreting materially
identical language in Title VII. That raises two questions:
Do the dissenters think Bostock wrongly decided? Or do
they read the same words in neighboring provisions of the
same statute—enacted at the same time by the same Con-
gress—to mean different things? Apparently, the federal
government takes the latter view. The Solicitor General in-
sists that there is “ambiguity in the term `discrimination' ”
in Title VI but no ambiguity in the term “discriminate” in
Title VII. Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–707, at 164. Respect-
fully, I do not see it. The words of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 are not like mood rings; they do not change their mes-
sage from one moment to the next.
Rather than engage with the statutory text or our prece-
dent in Bostock, the principal dissent seeks to sow confusion
about the facts. It insists that all applicants to Harvard and
UNC are “eligible” to receive a race-based tip. Post, at 348,
n. 27 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); cf. post, at 399 (Jackson, J.,
Page Proof Pending Publication
dissenting). But the question in these cases is not who
could hypothetically receive a race-based tip. It is who ac-
tually receives one. And on that score the lower courts left
no doubt. The district court in the Harvard case found that
the school's admissions policy “cannot . . . be considered fa-
cially neutral from a Title VI perspective given that admis-
sions offcers provide [race-based] tips to African American
and Hispanic applicants, while white and Asian American
applicants are unlikely to receive a meaningful race-based
tip.” 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 190, n. 56; see also id., at 189–
190 (“Harvard's admissions process is not facially neutral.”).
Likewise, the district court in the UNC case found that
admissions offcers “sometimes” award race-based plusses
to URM candidates—a category that excludes Asian Ameri-
can and white students. 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 591–592, n. 7,
601.6
6
The principal dissent suggests “some Asian American applicants are
actually advantaged by Harvard's use of race.” Post, at 375 (opinion of
Sotomayor, J.) (internal quotation marks omitted). What is the dissent's
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 303

Gorsuch, J., concurring

Nor could anyone doubt that these cases are about inten-
tional discrimination just because Harvard in particular
“ `does not explicitly prioritize any particular racial group
over any other.' ” Post, at 348, n. 27 (opinion of Sotoma-
yor, J.) (emphasis added). Forget for a moment the univer-
sities' concessions about how they deliberately consult race
when deciding whom to admit. See supra, at 298.7 Look
past the lower courts' fndings recounted above about how
the universities intentionally give tips to students of some
races and not others. See supra, at 294–297, 302. Put to the
side telling evidence that came out in discovery.8 Ignore,
too, our many precedents holding that it does not matter how
a defendant “label[s]” its practices, Bostock, 590 U. S., at –––;
that intentional discrimination between individuals is un-
lawful whether “motivated by a wish to achieve classwide
equality” or any other purpose, id., at –––; and that “the
absence of a malevolent motive does not convert a facially
Page Proof Pending Publication
discriminatory policy into a neutral policy with a [merely]
discriminatory effect,” Johnson Controls, 499 U. S., at 199.

basis for that claim? The district court's fnding that “considering appli-
cants' race may improve the admission chances of some Asian Americans
who connect their racial identities with particularly compelling narra-
tives.” 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 178 (emphasis added). The dissent neglects
to mention those key qualifcations. Worse, it ignores completely the dis-
trict court's further fnding that “overall” Harvard's race-conscious admis-
sions policy “results in fewer Asian American[s] . . . being admitted.”
Ibid. (emphasis added). So much for affording the district court's “careful
factfnding” the “deference it [is] owe[d].” Post, at 345–346, n. 25 (opinion
of Sotomayor, J.).
7
See also, e. g., Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, at 67, 84, 91; Tr. of Oral
Arg. in No. 21–707, at 70–71, 81, 84, 91–92, 110.
8
Messages among UNC admissions offcers included statements such
as these: “[P]erfect 2400 SAT All 5 on AP one B in 11th [grade].”
“Brown?!” “Heck no. Asian.” “Of course. Still impressive.”; “If it[']s
brown and above a 1300 [SAT] put them in for [the] merit/Excel [scholar-
ship].”; “I just opened a brown girl who's an 810 [SAT].”; “I'm going
through this trouble because this is a bi-racial (black/white) male.”; “Stel-
lar academics for a Native Amer[ican]/African Amer[ican] kid.” 3 App. in
No. 21–707, at 1242–1251.
304 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

Consider just the dissents in these cases. From start to fn-
ish and over the course of nearly 100 pages, they defend the
universities' purposeful discrimination between applicants
based on race. “[N]eutrality,” they insist, is not enough.
Post, at 328, 383 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); cf. post, at 403
(opinion of Jackson, J.). “[T]he use of race,” they stress, “is
critical.” Post, at 375 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); see id., at
318, 348–349, 355, 359–360; cf. post, at 384, 408 (opinion of
Jackson, J.). Plainly, Harvard and UNC choose to treat
some students worse than others in part because of race. To
suggest otherwise—or to cling to the fact that the schools
do not always say the quiet part aloud—is to deny reality.9
II
So far, we have seen that Title VI prohibits a recipient of
federal funds from discriminating against individuals even in
part because of race. We have seen, too, that Harvard and
UNC do just what the law forbids. One might wonder, then,
Page Proof Pending Publication
why the parties have devoted years and fortunes litigating
other matters, like how much the universities discriminate
and why they do so. The answer lies in Bakke.
A
Bakke concerned admissions to the medical school at the
University of California, Davis. That school set aside a cer-
9
Left with no reply on the statute or its application to the facts, the
principal dissent suggests that it violates “principles of party presenta-
tion” and abandons “judicial restraint” even to look at the text of Title VI.
Post, at 342, n. 21 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). It is a bewildering sugges-
tion. SFFA sued Harvard and UNC under Title VI. And when a party
seeks relief under a statute, our task is to apply the law's terms as a
reasonable reader would have understood them when Congress enacted
them. Bostock v. Clayton County, 590 U. S. –––, ––– (2020). To be sure,
parties are free to frame their arguments. But they are not free to stipu-
late to a statute's meaning and no party may “waiv[e]” the proper inter-
pretation of the law by “fail[ing] to invoke it.” EEOC v. FLRA, 476 U. S.
19, 23 (1986) (per curiam) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also
Young v. United States, 315 U. S. 257, 258–259 (1942).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 305

Gorsuch, J., concurring

tain number of spots in each class for minority applicants.
See 438 U. S., at 272–276 (opinion of Powell, J.). Allan
Bakke argued that the school's policy violated Title VI and
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Id., at 270. The Court agreed with Mr. Bakke. In a frac-
tured decision that yielded six opinions, a majority of the
Court held that the school's set-aside system went too far.
At the same time, however, a different coalition of fve Jus-
tices ventured beyond the facts of the case to suggest that, in
other circumstances not at issue, universities may sometimes
permissibly use race in their admissions processes. See
ante, at 208–210 (opinion for the Court).
As important as these conclusions were some of the inter-
pretive moves made along the way. Justice Powell (writing
only for himself) and Justice Brennan (writing for himself
and three others) argued that Title VI is coterminous with
the Equal Protection Clause. Put differently, they read
Page Proof Pending Publication
Title VI to prohibit recipients of federal funds from doing
whatever the Equal Protection Clause prohibits States from
doing. Justice Powell and Justice Brennan then proceeded
to evaluate racial preferences in higher education directly
under the Equal Protection Clause. From there, however,
their paths diverged. Justice Powell thought some racial
preferences might be permissible but that the admissions
program at issue violated the promise of equal protection.
438 U. S., at 315–320. Justice Brennan would have given a
wider berth to racial preferences and allowed the challenged
program to proceed. Id., at 355–379.
Justice Stevens (also writing for himself and three others)
took an altogether different approach. He began by noting
the Court's “settled practice” of “avoid[ing] the decision of a
constitutional issue if a case can be fairly decided on a statu-
tory ground.” Id., at 411. He then turned to the “broad
prohibition” of Title VI, id., at 413, and summarized his
views this way: “The University . . . excluded Bakke from
participation in its program of medical education because of
306 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

his race. The University also acknowledges that it was, and
still is, receiving federal fnancial assistance. The plain lan-
guage of the statute therefore requires” fnding a Title VI
violation. Id., at 412 (footnote omitted).
In the years following Bakke, this Court hewed to Justice
Powell's and Justice Brennan's shared premise that Title VI
and the Equal Protection Clause mean the same thing. See
Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 244, 276, n. 23 (2003); Grutter
v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 306, 343 (2003). Justice Stevens's
statute-focused approach receded from view. As a result,
for over four decades, every case about racial preferences in
school admissions under Title VI has turned into a case about
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
And what a confused body of constitutional law followed.
For years, this Court has said that the Equal Protection
Clause requires any consideration of race to satisfy “strict
scrutiny,” meaning it must be “narrowly tailored to further
Page Proof Pending Publication
compelling governmental interests.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at
326 (internal quotation marks omitted). Outside the context
of higher education, “our precedents have identifed only
two” interests that meet this demanding standard: “remedi-
ating specifc, identifed instances of past discrimination that
violated the Constitution or a statute,” and “avoiding immi-
nent and serious risks to human safety in prisons.” Ante,
at 207 (opinion for the Court).
Within higher education, however, an entirely distinct set
of rules emerged. Following Bakke, this Court declared
that judges may simply “defer” to a school's assertion that
“diversity is essential” to its “educational mission.” Grut-
ter, 539 U. S., at 328. Not all schools, though—elementary
and secondary schools apparently do not qualify for this def-
erence. See Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Se-
attle School Dist. No. 1, 551 U. S. 701, 724–725 (2007). Only
colleges and universities, the Court explained, “occupy a spe-
cial niche in our constitutional tradition.” Grutter, 539
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 307

Gorsuch, J., concurring

U. S., at 329. Yet even they (wielding their “special niche”
authority) cannot simply assert an interest in diversity and
discriminate as they please. Fisher, 579 U. S., at 381. In-
stead, they may consider race only as a “plus” factor for the
purpose of “attaining a critical mass of underrepresented mi-
nority students” or “a diverse student body.” Grutter, 539
U. S., at 335–336 (internal quotation marks omitted). At the
same time, the Court cautioned, this practice “must have a
logical end point.” Id., at 342. And in the meantime, “out-
right racial balancing” and “quota system[s]” remain “pat-
ently unconstitutional.” Id., at 330, 334. Nor may a college
or university ever provide “mechanical, predetermined di-
versity bonuses.” Id., at 337 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Only a “tip” or “plus” is constitutionally tolerable,
and only for a limited time. Id., at 338–339, 341.
If you cannot follow all these twists and turns, you are
not alone. See, e. g., Fisher, 579 U. S., at 401–437 (Alito, J.,
Page Proof Pending Publication
dissenting); Grutter, 539 U. S., at 346–349 (Scalia, J., joined
by Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part); 1
App. in No. 21–707, at 401–402 (testimony from UNC admin-
istrator: “[M]y understanding of the term `critical mass' is
that it's a . . . I'm trying to decide if it's an analogy or a
metaphor[.] I think it's an analogy. . . . I'm not even sure
we would know what it is.”); 3 App. in No. 20–1199, at 1137–
1138 (similar testimony from a Harvard administrator). If
the Court's post-Bakke higher-education precedents ever
made sense, they are by now incoherent.
Recognizing as much, the Court today cuts through the
kudzu. It ends university exceptionalism and returns this
Court to the traditional rule that the Equal Protection
Clause forbids the use of race in distinguishing between per-
sons unless strict scrutiny's demanding standards can be
met. In that way, today's decision wakes the echoes of Jus-
tice John Marshall Harlan: “The law regards man as man,
and takes no account of his surroundings or of his color when
308 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

his civil rights as guaranteed by the supreme law of the land
are involved.” Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537, 559 (1896)
(dissenting opinion).
B
If Bakke led to errors in interpreting the Equal Protection
Clause, its frst mistake was to take us there. These cases
arise under Title VI and that statute is “more than a simple
paraphrasing” of the Equal Protection Clause. 438 U. S., at
416 (opinion of Stevens, J.). Title VI has “independent force,
with language and emphasis in addition to that found in the
Constitution.” Ibid. That law deserves our respect and its
terms provide us with all the direction we need.
Put the two provisions side by side. Title VI says: “No
person in the United States shall, on the ground of race,
color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in,
be denied the benefts of, or be subjected to discrimination
under any program or activity receiving Federal fnancial
Page Proof Pending Publication
assistance.” § 2000d. The Equal Protection Clause reads:
“No State shall . . . deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws.” Amdt. 14, § 1. That such
differently worded provisions should mean the same thing is
implausible on its face.
Consider just some of the obvious differences. The Equal
Protection Clause operates on States. It does not purport
to regulate the conduct of private parties. By contrast,
Title VI applies to recipients of federal funds—covering not
just many state actors, but many private actors too. In this
way, Title VI reaches entities and organizations that the
Equal Protection Clause does not.
In other respects, however, the relative scope of the two
provisions is inverted. The Equal Protection Clause ad-
dresses all manner of distinctions between persons and this
Court has held that it implies different degrees of judicial
scrutiny for different kinds of classifcations. So, for exam-
ple, courts apply strict scrutiny for classifcations based on
race, color, and national origin; intermediate scrutiny for
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 309

Gorsuch, J., concurring

classifcations based on sex; and rational-basis review for
classifcations based on more prosaic grounds. See, e. g.,
Fisher, 579 U. S., at 376; Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488
U. S. 469, 493–495 (1989) (plurality opinion); United States v.
Virginia, 518 U. S. 515, 555–556 (1996); Board of Trustees of
Univ. of Ala. v. Garrett, 531 U. S. 356, 366–367 (2001). By
contrast, Title VI targets only certain classifcations—those
based on race, color, or national origin. And that law does
not direct courts to subject these classifcations to one de-
gree of scrutiny or another. Instead, as we have seen, its
rule is as uncomplicated as it is momentous. Under Title
VI, it is always unlawful to discriminate among persons even
in part because of race, color, or national origin.
In truth, neither Justice Powell's nor Justice Brennan's
opinion in Bakke focused on the text of Title VI. Instead,
both leapt almost immediately to its “voluminous legislative
history,” from which they proceeded to divine an implicit
Page Proof Pending Publication
“congressional intent” to link the statute with the Equal Pro-
tection Clause. 438 U. S., at 284–285 (opinion of Powell, J.);
id., at 328–336 ( joint opinion of Brennan, White, Marshall,
and Blackmun, JJ.). Along the way, as Justice Stevens docu-
mented, both opinions did more than a little cherry-picking
from the legislative record. See id., at 413–417. Justice
Brennan went so far as to declare that “any claim that the
use of racial criteria is barred by the plain language of the
statute must fail in light of the remedial purpose of Title VI
and its legislative history.” Id., at 340. And once liberated
from the statute's frm rule against discrimination based on
race, both opinions proceeded to devise their own and very
different arrangements in the name of the Equal Protection
Clause.
The moves made in Bakke were not statutory interpreta-
tion. They were judicial improvisation. Under our Consti-
tution, judges have never been entitled to disregard the plain
terms of a valid congressional enactment based on surmise
about unenacted legislative intentions. Instead, it has al-
310 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Gorsuch, J., concurring

ways been this Court's duty “to give effect, if possible, to
every clause and word of a statute,” Montclair v. Ramsdell,
107 U. S. 147, 152 (1883), and of the Constitution itself, see
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 87 (1900). In this country,
“[o]nly the written word is the law, and all persons are enti-
tled to its beneft.” Bostock, 590 U. S., at –––. When
judges disregard these principles and enforce rules “inspired
only by extratextual sources and [their] own imaginations,”
they usurp a lawmaking function “reserved for the people's
representatives.” Id., at –––.
Today, the Court corrects course in its reading of the
Equal Protection Clause. With that, courts should now also
correct course in their treatment of Title VI. For years,
they have read a solo opinion in Bakke like a statute while
reading Title VI as a mere suggestion. A proper respect
for the law demands the opposite. Title VI bears independ-
ent force beyond the Equal Protection Clause. Nothing in
Page Proof Pending Publication
it grants special deference to university administrators.
Nothing in it endorses racial discrimination to any degree
or for any purpose. Title VI is more consequential than
that.
*
In the aftermath of the Civil War, Congress took vital
steps toward realizing the promise of equality under the law.
As important as those initial efforts were, much work re-
mained to be done—and much remains today. But by any
measure, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 stands as a landmark
on this journey and one of the Nation's great triumphs. We
have no right to make a blank sheet of any of its provisions.
And when we look to the clear and powerful command Con-
gress set forth in that law, these cases all but resolve them-
selves. Under Title VI, it is never permissible “ `to say
“yes” to one person . . . but to say “no” to another person' ”
even in part “ `because of the color of his skin.' ” Bakke, 438
U. S., at 418 (opinion of Stevens, J.).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 311

Kavanaugh, J., concurring

Justice Kavanaugh, concurring.
I join the Court's opinion in full. I add this concurring
opinion to further explain why the Court's decision today is
consistent with and follows from the Court's equal protection
precedents, including the Court's precedents on race-based
affrmative action in higher education.
Ratifed in 1868 in the wake of the Civil War, the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment provides:
“No State shall. . . deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws.” U. S. Const., Amdt. 14,
§ 1. In accord with the Fourteenth Amendment's text and
history, this Court considers all racial classifcations to be
constitutionally suspect. See Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U. S.
306, 326 (2003); Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 306–
308 (1880). As a result, the Court has long held that racial
classifcations by the government, including race-based af-
frmative action programs, are subject to strict judicial
Page Proof Pending Publication
scrutiny.
Under strict scrutiny, racial classifcations are consti-
tutionally prohibited unless they are narrowly tailored to
further a compelling governmental interest. Grutter, 539
U. S., at 326–327. Narrow tailoring requires courts to ex-
amine, among other things, whether a racial classifcation is
“necessary”—in other words, whether race-neutral alterna-
tives could adequately achieve the governmental interest.
Id., at 327, 339–340; Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S.
469, 507 (1989).
Importantly, even if a racial classifcation is otherwise nar-
rowly tailored to further a compelling governmental inter-
est, a “deviation from the norm of equal treatment of all ra-
cial and ethnic groups” must be “a temporary matter”—or
stated otherwise, must be “limited in time.” Id., at 510 (plu-
rality opinion of O'Connor, J.); Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342.
In 1978, fve Members of this Court held that race-based
affrmative action in higher education did not violate the
Equal Protection Clause or Title VI of the Civil Rights Act,
312 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Kavanaugh, J., concurring

so long as universities used race only as a factor in admis-
sions decisions and did not employ quotas. See Regents of
Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 325–326 (1978) ( joint
opinion of Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ.); id.,
at 287, 315–320 (opinion of Powell, J.). One Member of the
Court's fve-Justice majority, Justice Blackmun, added that
race-based affrmative action should exist only as a tem-
porary measure. He expressed hope that such programs
would be “unnecessary” and a “relic of the past” by 1988—
within 10 years “at the most,” in his words—although he
doubted that the goal could be achieved by then. Id., at 403
(opinion of Blackmun, J.).
In 2003, 25 years after Bakke, fve Members of this Court
again held that race-based affrmative action in higher educa-
tion did not violate the Equal Protection Clause or Title VI.
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 343. This time, however, the Court
also specifcally indicated—despite the reservations of Jus-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tice Ginsburg and Justice Breyer—that race-based affrma-
tive action in higher education would not be constitutionally
justifed after another 25 years, at least absent something
not “expect[ed].” Ibid. And various Members of the Court
wrote separate opinions explicitly referencing the Court's 25-
year limit.
• Justice O'Connor's opinion for the Court stated: “We ex-
pect that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences
will no longer be necessary to further the interest ap-
proved today.” Ibid.
• Justice Thomas expressly concurred in “the Court's
holding that racial discrimination in higher education ad-
missions will be illegal in 25 years.” Id., at 351 (opinion
concurring in part and dissenting in part).
• Justice Thomas, joined here by Justice Scalia, reiter-
ated “the Court's holding” that race-based affrmative
action in higher education “will be unconstitutional in 25
years” and “that in 25 years the practices of the Law
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 313

Kavanaugh, J., concurring

School will be illegal,” while also stating that “they are,
for the reasons I have given, illegal now.” Id., at 375–
376.
• Justice Kennedy referred to “the Court's pronouncement
that race-conscious admissions programs will be unnec-
essary 25 years from now.” Id., at 394 (dissenting
opinion).
• Justice Ginsburg, joined by Justice Breyer, acknowl-
edged the Court's 25-year limit but questioned it, writ-
ing that “one may hope, but not frmly forecast, that over
the next generation's span, progress toward nondiscrimi-
nation and genuinely equal opportunity will make it safe
to sunset affrmative action.” Id., at 346 (concurring
opinion).
In allowing race-based affrmative action in higher educa-
tion for another generation—and only for another genera-
tion—the Court in Grutter took into account competing con-
Page Proof Pending Publication
siderations. The Court recognized the barriers that some
minority applicants to universities still faced as of 2003, not-
withstanding the progress made since Bakke. See Grutter,
539 U. S., at 343. The Court stressed, however, that “there
are serious problems of justice connected with the idea of
preference itself.” Id., at 341 (internal quotation marks
omitted). And the Court added that a “core purpose of the
Fourteenth Amendment was to do away with all governmen-
tally imposed discrimination based on race.” Ibid. (internal
quotation marks omitted).
The Grutter Court also emphasized the equal protection
principle that racial classifcations, even when otherwise per-
missible, must be a “ `temporary matter,' ” and “must be
limited in time.” Id., at 342 (quoting Croson, 488 U. S., at
510 (plurality opinion of O'Connor, J.)). The requirement of
a time limit “refects that racial classifcations, however com-
pelling their goals, are potentially so dangerous that they
may be employed no more broadly than the interest de-
314 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Kavanaugh, J., concurring

mands. Enshrining a permanent justifcation for racial pref-
erences would offend this fundamental equal protection prin-
ciple.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342.
Importantly, the Grutter Court saw “no reason to exempt
race-conscious admissions programs from the requirement
that all governmental use of race must have a logical end
point.” Ibid. The Court reasoned that the “requirement
that all race-conscious admissions programs have a termina-
tion point assures all citizens that the deviation from the
norm of equal treatment of all racial and ethnic groups is a
temporary matter, a measure taken in the service of the goal
of equality itself.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks and al-
teration omitted). The Court therefore concluded that race-
based affrmative action programs in higher education, like
other racial classifcations, must be “limited in time.” Ibid.
The Grutter Court's conclusion that race-based affrmative
action in higher education must be limited in time followed
Page Proof Pending Publication
not only from fundamental equal protection principles, but
also from this Court's equal protection precedents applying
those principles. Under those precedents, racial classifca-
tions may not continue indefnitely. For example, in the ele-
mentary and secondary school context after Brown v. Board
of Education, 347 U. S. 483 (1954), the Court authorized
race-based student assignments for several decades—but not
indefnitely into the future. See, e. g., Board of Ed. of Okla-
homa City Public Schools v. Dowell, 498 U. S. 237, 247–248
(1991); Pasadena City Bd. of Ed. v. Spangler, 427 U. S. 424,
433–434, 436 (1976); Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Bd. of
Ed., 402 U. S. 1, 31–32 (1971); cf. McDaniel v. Barresi, 402
U. S. 39, 41 (1971).
In those decisions, this Court ruled that the race-based
“injunctions entered in school desegregation cases” could not
“operate in perpetuity.” Dowell, 498 U. S., at 248. Consist-
ent with those decisions, the Grutter Court ruled that race-
based affrmative action in higher education likewise could
not operate in perpetuity.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 315

Kavanaugh, J., concurring

As of 2003, when Grutter was decided, many race-based
affrmative action programs in higher education had been op-
erating for about 25 to 35 years. Pointing to the Court's
precedents requiring that racial classifcations be “tempo-
rary,” Croson, 488 U. S., at 510 (plurality opinion of O'Con-
nor, J.), the petitioner in Grutter, joined by the United
States, argued that race-based affrmative action in higher
education could continue no longer. See Brief for Petitioner
21–22, 30–31, 33, 42, Brief for United States 26–27, in Grutter
v. Bollinger, O. T. 2002, No. 02–241.
The Grutter Court rejected those arguments for ending
race-based affrmative action in higher education in 2003.
But in doing so, the Court struck a careful balance. The
Court ruled that narrowly tailored race-based affrmative ac-
tion in higher education could continue for another genera-
tion. But the Court also explicitly rejected any “permanent
justifcation for racial preferences,” and therefore ruled that
Page Proof Pending Publication
race-based affrmative action in higher education could con-
tinue only for another generation. 539 U. S., at 342–343.
Harvard and North Carolina would prefer that the Court
now ignore or discard Grutter's 25-year limit on race-based
affrmative action in higher education, or treat it as a mere
aspiration. But the 25-year limit constituted an important
part of Justice O'Connor's nuanced opinion for the Court in
Grutter. Indeed, four of the separate opinions in Grutter
discussed the majority opinion's 25-year limit, which belies
any suggestion that the Court's reference to it was insignif-
cant or not carefully considered.
In short, the Court in Grutter expressly recognized the
serious issues raised by racial classifcations—particularly
permanent or long-term racial classifications. And the
Court “assure[d] all citizens” throughout America that “the
deviation from the norm of equal treatment” in higher edu-
cation could continue for another generation, and only for
another generation. Ibid. (internal quotation marks
omitted).
316 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Kavanaugh, J., concurring

A generation has now passed since Grutter, and about 50
years have gone by since the era of Bakke and DeFunis v.
Odegaard, 416 U. S. 312 (1974), when race-based affrmative
action programs in higher education largely began. In light
of the Constitution's text, history, and precedent, the Court's
decision today appropriately respects and abides by Grut-
ter's explicit temporal limit on the use of race-based affrma-
tive action in higher education.*
Justice Sotomayor, Justice Kagan, and Justice Jack-
son disagree with the Court's decision. I respect their
views. They thoroughly recount the horrifc history of slav-
ery and Jim Crow in America, cf. Bakke, 438 U. S., at 395–
402 (opinion of Marshall, J.), as well as the continuing effects
of that history on African Americans today. And they are
of course correct that for the last fve decades, Bakke and
Grutter have allowed narrowly tailored race-based affrma-
tive action in higher education.
But I respectfully part ways with my dissenting col-
Page Proof Pending Publication
leagues on the question of whether, under this Court's prece-
dents, race-based affrmative action in higher education may
extend indefnitely into the future. The dissents suggest
that the answer is yes. But this Court's precedents make
clear that the answer is no. See Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342–
343; Dowell, 498 U. S., at 247–248; Croson, 488 U. S., at 510
(plurality opinion of O'Connor, J.).
To reiterate: For about 50 years, many institutions of
higher education have employed race-based affrmative ac-

*The Court's decision will frst apply to the admissions process for the
college class of 2028, which is the next class to be admitted. Some might
have debated how to calculate Grutter's 25-year period—whether it ends
with admissions for the college class of 2028 or instead for the college class
of 2032. But neither Harvard nor North Carolina argued that Grutter's
25-year period ends with the class of 2032 rather than the class of 2028.
Indeed, notwithstanding the 25-year limit set forth in Grutter, neither
university embraced any temporal limit on race-based affrmative action
in higher education, or identifed any end date for its continued use of race
in admissions. Ante, at 221–225.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 317

Kavanaugh, J., concurring

tion programs. In the abstract, it might have been debat-
able how long those race-based admissions programs could
continue under the “temporary matter”/“limited in time”
equal protection principle recognized and applied by this
Court. Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342 (internal quotation marks
omitted); cf. Dowell, 498 U. S., at 247–248. But in 2003, the
Grutter Court applied that temporal equal protection princi-
ple and resolved the debate: The Court declared that race-
based affrmative action in higher education could continue
for another generation, and only for another generation, at
least absent something unexpected. Grutter, 539 U. S., at
343. As I have explained, the Court's pronouncement of a
25-year period—as both an extension of and an outer limit
to race-based affrmative action in higher education—formed
an important part of the carefully constructed Grutter deci-
sion. I would abide by that temporal limit rather than dis-
carding it, as today's dissents would do.
Page Proof Pending Publication
To be clear, although progress has been made since Bakke
and Grutter, racial discrimination still occurs and the effects
of past racial discrimination still persist. Federal and state
civil rights laws serve to deter and provide remedies for
current acts of racial discrimination. And governments
and universities still “can, of course, act to undo the effects
of past discrimination in many permissible ways that do
not involve classifcation by race.” Croson, 488 U. S., at
526 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation
marks omitted); see id., at 509 (plurality opinion of O'Con-
nor, J.) (“the city has at its disposal a whole array of race-
neutral devices to increase the accessibility of city con-
tracting opportunities to small entrepreneurs of all races”);
ante, at 230–231; Brief for Petitioner 80–86; Reply Brief in
No. 20–1199, pp. 25–26; Reply Brief in No. 21–707,
pp. 23–26.
In sum, the Court's opinion today is consistent with and
follows from the Court's equal protection precedents, and I
join the Court's opinion in full.
318 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kagan and
Justice Jackson join,* dissenting.
The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
ment enshrines a guarantee of racial equality. The Court
long ago concluded that this guarantee can be enforced
through race-conscious means in a society that is not, and
has never been, colorblind. In Brown v. Board of Educa-
tion, 347 U. S. 483 (1954), the Court recognized the constitu-
tional necessity of racially integrated schools in light of the
harm inficted by segregation and the “importance of educa-
tion to our democratic society.” Id., at 492–495. For 45
years, the Court extended Brown's transformative legacy to
the context of higher education, allowing colleges and uni-
versities to consider race in a limited way and for the limited
purpose of promoting the important benefts of racial diver-
sity. This limited use of race has helped equalize educa-
tional opportunities for all students of every race and back-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ground and has improved racial diversity on college
campuses. Although progress has been slow and imperfect,
race-conscious college admissions policies have advanced the
Constitution's guarantee of equality and have promoted
Brown's vision of a Nation with more inclusive schools.
Today, this Court stands in the way and rolls back decades
of precedent and momentous progress. It holds that race
can no longer be used in a limited way in college admissions
to achieve such critical benefts. In so holding, the Court
cements a superfcial rule of colorblindness as a constitu-
tional principle in an endemically segregated society where
race has always mattered and continues to matter. The
Court subverts the constitutional guarantee of equal protec-
tion by further entrenching racial inequality in education,
the very foundation of our democratic government and plu-

*Justice Jackson did not participate in the consideration or decision
of the case in No. 20–1199 and joins this opinion only as it applies to the
case in No. 21–707.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 319

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

ralistic society. Because the Court's opinion is not grounded
in law or fact and contravenes the vision of equality embod-
ied in the Fourteenth Amendment, I dissent.

I
A
Equal educational opportunity is a prerequisite to achiev-
ing racial equality in our Nation. From its founding, the
United States was a new experiment in a republican form of
government where democratic participation and the capacity
to engage in self-rule were vital. At the same time, Ameri-
can society was structured around the proftable institution
that was slavery, which the original Constitution protected.
The Constitution initially limited the power of Congress to
restrict the slave trade, Art. I, § 9, cl. 1, accorded Southern
States additional electoral power by counting three-ffths
Page Proof Pending Publication
of their enslaved population in apportioning congressional
seats, § 2, cl. 3, and gave enslavers the right to retrieve en-
slaved people who escaped to free States, Art. IV, § 2, cl. 3.
Because a foundational pillar of slavery was the racist notion
that Black people are a subordinate class with intellectual
inferiority, Southern States sought to ensure slavery's lon-
gevity by prohibiting the education of Black people, whether
enslaved or free. See H. Williams, Self-Taught: African
American Education in Slavery and Freedom 7, 203–213
(2005) (Self-Taught). Thus, from this Nation's birth, the
freedom to learn was neither colorblind nor equal.
With time, and at the tremendous cost of the Civil War,
abolition came. More than two centuries after the frst Afri-
can enslaved persons were forcibly brought to our shores,
Congress adopted the Thirteenth Amendment to the Consti-
tution, which abolished “slavery” and “involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime.” § 1. “Like all great his-
torical transformations,” emancipation was a movement,
“not a single event” owed to any single individual, institu-
320 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

tion, or political party. E. Foner, The Second Founding 21,
51–54 (2019) (The Second Founding).
The fght for equal educational opportunity, however, was
a key driver. Literacy was an “instrument of resistance and
liberation. ” Self-Taught 8. Education “provided the
means to write a pass to freedom” and “to learn of abolition-
ist activities.” Id., at 7. It allowed enslaved Black people
“to disturb the power relations between master and slave,”
which “fused their desire for literacy with their desire for
freedom.” Ibid. Put simply, “[t]he very feeling of inferior-
ity which slavery forced upon [Black people] fathered an in-
tense desire to rise out of their condition by means of educa-
tion.” W. E. B. Du Bois, Black Reconstruction in America
1860–1880, p. 638 (1935); see J. Anderson, The Education of
Blacks in the South 1860–1935, p. 7 (1988). Black Americans
thus insisted, in the words of Frederick Douglass, “that in a
country governed by the people, like ours, education of the
Page Proof Pending Publication
youth of all classes is vital to its welfare, prosperity, and to
its existence.” Address to the People of the United States
(1883), in 4 P. Foner, The Life and Writings of Frederick
Douglass 386 (1955). Black people's yearning for freedom
of thought, and for a more perfect Union with educational
opportunity for all, played a crucial role during the Recon-
struction era.
Yet emancipation marked the beginning, not the end, of
that era. Abolition alone could not repair centuries of racial
subjugation. Following the Thirteenth Amendment's rati-
fcation, the Southern States replaced slavery with “a system
of `laws which imposed upon [Black people] onerous disabili-
ties and burdens, and curtailed their rights in the pursuit of
life, liberty, and property to such an extent that their free-
dom was of little value.' ” Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke,
438 U. S. 265, 390 (1978) (opinion of Marshall, J.) (quoting
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 70 (1873)). Those so-
called “Black Codes” discriminated against Black people on
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 321

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

the basis of race, regardless of whether they had been pre-
viously enslaved. See, e. g., 1866 N. C. Sess. Laws pp. 99, 102.
Moreover, the criminal punishment exception in the Thir-
teenth Amendment facilitated the creation of a new system
of forced labor in the South. Southern States expanded
their criminal laws, which in turn “permitted involuntary
servitude as a punishment” for convicted Black persons. D.
Blackmon, Slavery by Another Name: The Re-Enslavement
of Black Americans From the Civil War to World War II,
pp. 7, 53 (2009) (Slavery by Another Name). States re-
quired, for example, that Black people “sign a labor contract
to work for a white employer or face prosecution for va-
grancy.” The Second Founding 48. State laws then forced
Black convicted persons to labor in “plantations, mines, and
industries in the South.” Id., at 50. This system of free
forced labor provided tremendous benefts to Southern
whites and was designed to intimidate, subjugate, and con-
Page Proof Pending Publication
trol newly emancipated Black people. See Slavery by An-
other Name 5–6, 53. The Thirteenth Amendment, without
more, failed to equalize society.
Congress thus went further and embarked on months of
deliberation about additional Reconstruction laws. Those
efforts included the appointment of a Committee, the Joint
Committee on Reconstruction, “to inquire into the condition
of the Confederate States.” Report of the Joint Committee
on Reconstruction, S. Rep. No. 112, 39th Cong., 1st Sess.,
1 (1866) (hereinafter Joint Comm. Rep.). Among other
things, the Committee's Report to Congress documented the
“deep-seated prejudice” against emancipated Black people in
the Southern States and the lack of a “general disposition to
place the colored race, constituting at least two-ffths of the
population, upon terms even of civil equality.” Id., at 11.
In light of its fndings, the Committee proposed amending
the Constitution to secure the equality of “rights, civil and
political.” Id., at 7.
322 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Congress acted on that recommendation and adopted the
Fourteenth Amendment. Proponents of the Amendment
declared that one of its key goals was to “protec[t] the black
man in his fundamental rights as a citizen with the same
shield which it throws over the white man.” Cong. Globe,
39th Cong., 1st Sess., 2766 (1866) (Cong. Globe) (statement of
Sen. Howard). That is, the Amendment sought “to secure
to a race recently emancipated, a race that through many
generations [was] held in slavery, all the civil rights that the
superior race enjoy.” Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537,
555–556 (1896) (Harlan, J., dissenting) (internal quotation
marks omitted).
To promote this goal, Congress enshrined a broad guaran-
tee of equality in the Equal Protection Clause of the Amend-
ment. That Clause commands that “[n]o State shall . . . deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
the laws.” Amdt. 14, § 1. Congress chose its words care-
Page Proof Pending Publication
fully, opting for expansive language that focused on equal
protection and rejecting “proposals that would have made
the Constitution explicitly color-blind.” A. Kull, The Color-
Blind Constitution 69 (1992); see also, e. g., Cong. Globe 1287
(rejecting proposed language providing that “no State . . .
shall . . . recognize any distinction between citizens . . . on
account of race or color”). This choice makes it clear that
the Fourteenth Amendment does not impose a blanket ban
on race-conscious policies.
Simultaneously with the passage of the Fourteenth
Amendment, Congress enacted a number of race-conscious
laws to fulfll the Amendment's promise of equality, leaving
no doubt that the Equal Protection Clause permits consider-
ation of race to achieve its goal. One such law was the
Freedmen's Bureau Act, enacted in 1865 and then expanded
in 1866, which established a federal agency to provide cer-
tain benefts to refugees and newly emancipated freedmen.
See Act of Mar. 3, 1865, ch. 90, 13 Stat. 507; Act of July 16,
1866, ch. 200, 14 Stat. 173. For the Bureau, education “was
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 323

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

the foundation upon which all efforts to assist the freedmen
rested.” E. Foner, Reconstruction: America's Unfnished
Revolution 1863–1877, p. 144 (1988). Consistent with that
view, the Bureau provided essential “funding for black edu-
cation during Reconstruction.” Id., at 97.
Black people were the targeted benefciaries of the Bu-
reau's programs, especially when it came to investments in
education in the wake of the Civil War. Each year sur-
rounding the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment, the Bu-
reau “educated approximately 100,000 students, nearly all of
them black,” and regardless of “degree of past disadvan-
tage.” E. Schnapper, Affrmative Action and the Legisla-
tive History of the Fourteenth Amendment, 71 Va. L. Rev.
753, 781 (1985). The Bureau also provided land and funding
to establish some of our Nation's Historically Black Colleges
and Universities (HBCUs). Ibid.; see also Brief for HBCU
Leaders et al. as Amici Curiae 13 (HBCU Brief). In 1867,
for example, the Bureau provided Howard University tens of
Page Proof Pending Publication
thousands of dollars to buy property and construct its cam-
pus in our Nation's capital. 2 O. Howard, Autobiography
397–401 (1907). Howard University was designed to pro-
vide “special opportunities for a higher education to the
newly enfranchised of the south,” but it was available to
all Black people, “whatever may have been their previous
condition.” Bureau Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned
Lands, Sixth Semi-Annual Report on Schools for Freedmen
60 (July 1, 1868).1 The Bureau also “expended a total of
$407,752.21 on black colleges, and only $3,000 on white col-
leges” from 1867 to 1870. Schnapper, 71 Va. L. Rev., at
781, n. 149.

1
As Justice Thomas acknowledges, the HBCUs, including Howard
University, account for a high proportion of Black college graduates.
Ante, at 285–286 (concurring opinion). That reality cannot be divorced
from the history of anti-Black discrimination that gave rise to the HBCUs
and the targeted work of the Freedmen's Bureau to help Black people
obtain a higher education. See HBCU Brief 13–15.
324 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Indeed, contemporaries understood that the Freedmen's
Bureau Act benefted Black people. Supporters defended
the law by stressing its race-conscious approach. See, e. g.,
Cong. Globe 632 (statement of Rep. Moulton) (“[T]he true
object of this bill is the amelioration of the condition of the
colored people”); Joint Comm. Rep. 11 (reporting that “the
Union men of the south” declared “with one voice” that the
Bureau's efforts “protect[ed] the colored people”). Oppo-
nents argued that the Act created harmful racial classifca-
tions that favored Black people and disfavored white Ameri-
cans. See, e. g., Cong. Globe 397 (statement of Sen. Willey)
(the Act makes “a distinction on account of color between
the two races”), 544 (statement of Rep. Taylor) (the Act is
“legislation for a particular class of the blacks to the exclu-
sion of all whites”), App. to Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st
Sess., 69–70 (statement of Rep. Rousseau) (“You raise a spirit
of antagonism between the black race and the white race in
Page Proof Pending Publication
our country, and the law-abiding will be powerless to control
it”). President Andrew Johnson vetoed the bill on the basis
that it provided benefts “to a particular class of citizens,” 6
Messages and Papers of the Presidents 1789–1897, p. 425 (J.
Richardson ed. 1897) (Messages and Papers) (A. Johnson to
House of Rep. July 16, 1866), but Congress overrode his veto.
Cong. Globe 3849–3850. Thus, rejecting those opponents'
objections, the same Reconstruction Congress that passed
the Fourteenth Amendment eschewed the concept of color-
blindness as suffcient to remedy inequality in education.
Congress also debated and passed the Civil Rights Act of
1866 contemporaneously with the Fourteenth Amendment.
The goal of that Act was to eradicate the Black Codes
enacted by Southern States following ratifcation of the Thir-
teenth Amendment. See id., at 474. Because the Black
Codes focused on race, not just slavery-related status, the
Civil Rights Act explicitly recognized that white citizens en-
joyed certain rights that non-white citizens did not. Section
1 of the Act provided that all persons “of every race and
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 325

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

color . . . shall have the same right[s]” as those “enjoyed by
white citizens.” Act of Apr. 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 27. Similarly,
§ 2 established criminal penalties for subjecting racial minor-
ities to “different punishment . . . by reason of . . . color or
race, than is prescribed for the punishment of white per-
sons.” Ibid. In other words, the Act was not colorblind.
By using white citizens as a benchmark, the law classifed by
race and took account of the privileges enjoyed only by white
people. As he did with the Freedmen's Bureau Act, Presi-
dent Johnson vetoed the Civil Rights Act in part because he
viewed it as providing Black citizens with special treatment.
See Messages and Papers 408, 413 (the Act is designed “to
afford discriminating protection to colored persons,” and its
“distinction of race and color . . . operate[s] in favor of the
colored and against the white race”). Again, Congress over-
rode his veto. Cong. Globe 1861. In fact, Congress reen-
acted race-conscious language in the Civil Rights Act of 1870,
Page Proof Pending Publication
two years after ratifcation of the Fourteenth Amendment,
see Act of May 31, 1870, § 16, 16 Stat. 144, where it remains
today, see 42 U. S. C. §§ 1981(a) and 1982 (Rev. Stat. §§ 1972,
1978).
Congress similarly appropriated federal dollars explicitly
and solely for the beneft of racial minorities. For example,
it appropriated money for “ `the relief of destitute colored
women and children,' ” without regard to prior enslavement.
Act of July 28, 1866, 14 Stat. 317. Several times during and
after the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment, Congress
also made special appropriations and adopted special protec-
tions for the bounty and prize money owed to “colored sol-
diers and sailors” of the Union Army. 14 Stat. 357, Res. No.
46, June 15, 1866; Act of Mar. 3, 1869, ch. 122, 15 Stat. 301;
Act of Mar. 3, 1873, 17 Stat. 528. In doing so, it rebuffed
objections to these measures as “class legislation” “applica-
ble to colored people and not . . . to the white people.” Cong.
Globe, 40th Cong., 1st Sess., 79 (1867) (statement of Sen.
Grimes). This history makes it “inconceivable” that race-
326 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

conscious college admissions are unconstitutional. Bakke,
438 U. S., at 398 (opinion of Marshall, J.).2
B
The Reconstruction era marked a transformational point
in the history of American democracy. Its vision of equal
opportunity leading to an equal society “was short-lived,”
however, “with the assistance of this Court.” Id., at 391.
In a series of decisions, the Court “sharply curtailed” the
“substantive protections” of the Reconstruction Amend-
ments and the Civil Rights Acts. Id., at 391–392 (collecting
cases). That endeavor culminated with the Court's shame-
ful decision in Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537 (1896), which
established that “equality of treatment” exists “when the
races are provided substantially equal facilities, even though
these facilities be separate.” Brown, 347 U. S., at 488.
Therefore, with this Court's approval, government-enforced
segregation and its concomitant destruction of equal oppor-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tunity became the constitutional norm and infected every
sector of our society, from bathrooms to military units and,
crucially, schools. See Bakke, 438 U. S., at 393–394 (opinion
of Marshall, J.); see also generally R. Rothstein, The Color of
Law 17–176 (2017) (discussing various federal policies that
promoted racial segregation).
In a powerful dissent, Justice Harlan explained in Plessy
that the Louisiana law at issue, which authorized segregation
in railway carriages, perpetuated a “caste” system. 163
U. S., at 559–560. Although the State argued that the law
2
By the time the Fourteenth Amendment was ratifed by the States in
1868, “education had become a right of state citizenship in the constitution
of every readmitted state,” including in North Carolina. D. Black, The
Fundamental Right to Education, 94 Notre Dame L. Rev. 1059, 1089
(2019); see also Brief for Black Women Law Scholars as Amici Curiae 9
(“The herculean efforts of Black reformers, activists, and lawmakers dur-
ing the Reconstruction Era forever transformed State constitutional law;
today, thanks to the impact of their work, [nearly] every State constitution
contains language guaranteeing the right to public education”).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 327

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

“prescribe[d] a rule applicable alike to white and colored citi-
zens,” all knew that the law's purpose was not “to exclude
white persons from railroad cars occupied by blacks,” but “to
exclude colored people from coaches occupied by or assigned
to white persons.” Id., at 557. That is, the law “pro-
ceed[ed] on the ground that colored citizens are so inferior
and degraded that they cannot be allowed to sit in public
coaches occupied by white citizens.” Id., at 560. Although
“[t]he white race deems itself to be the dominant race . . .
in prestige, in achievements, in education, in wealth and in
power,” Justice Harlan explained, there is “no superior, dom-
inant, ruling class of citizens” in the eyes of the law. Id., at
559. In that context, Justice Harlan thus announced his
view that “[o]ur constitution is color-blind.” Ibid.
It was not until half a century later, in Brown, that the
Court honored the guarantee of equality in the Equal Protec-
tion Clause and Justice Harlan's vision of a Constitution that
Page Proof Pending Publication
“neither knows nor tolerates classes among citizens.” 163
U. S., at 559. Considering the “effect[s] of segregation” and
the role of education “in the light of its full development and
its present place in American life throughout the Nation,”
Brown overruled Plessy. 347 U. S., at 492–495. The Brown
Court held that “[s]eparate educational facilities are inher-
ently unequal,” and that such racial segregation deprives
Black students “of the equal protection of the laws guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment.” Id., at 494–495. The
Court thus ordered segregated schools to transition to a ra-
cially integrated system of public education “with all deliber-
ate speed,” “ordering the immediate admission of [Black chil-
dren] to schools previously attended only by white children.”
Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U. S. 294, 301 (1955).
Brown was a race-conscious decision that emphasized the
importance of education in our society. Central to the
Court's holding was the recognition that, as Justice Harlan
emphasized in Plessy, segregation perpetuates a caste sys-
tem wherein Black children receive inferior educational op-
328 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

portunities “solely because of their race,” denoting “inferior-
ity as to their status in the community.” 347 U. S., at 494,
and n. 10. Moreover, because education is “the very founda-
tion of good citizenship,” segregation in public education
harms “our democratic society” more broadly as well. Id.,
at 493. In light of the harmful effects of entrenched racial
subordination on racial minorities and American democracy,
Brown recognized the constitutional necessity of a racially
integrated system of schools where education is “available to
all on equal terms.” Ibid.
The desegregation cases that followed Brown confrm that
the ultimate goal of that seminal decision was to achieve a
system of integrated schools that ensured racial equality of op-
portunity, not to impose a formalistic rule of race-blindness.
In Green v. School Bd. of New Kent Cty., 391 U. S. 430 (1968),
for example, the Court held that the New Kent County
School Board's “freedom of choice” plan, which allegedly al-
Page Proof Pending Publication
lowed “every student, regardless of race, . . . `freely' [to]
choose the school he [would] attend,” was insuffcient to ef-
fectuate “the command of [Brown].” Id., at 437, 441–442.
That command, the Court explained, was that schools dis-
mantle “well-entrenched dual systems” and transition “to a
unitary, nonracial system of public education.” Id., at 435–
436. That the board “opened the doors of the former `white'
school to [Black] children and of the [`Black'] school to white
children” on a race-blind basis was not enough. Id., at 437.
Passively eliminating race classifcations did not suffce when
de facto segregation persisted. Id., at 440–442 (noting that
85% of Black children in the school system were still attend-
ing an all-Black school). Instead, the board was “clearly
charged with the affrmative duty to take whatever steps
might be necessary to convert to a unitary system in which
racial discrimination would be eliminated root and branch.”
Id., at 437–438. Affrmative steps, this Court held, are con-
stitutionally necessary when mere formal neutrality cannot
achieve Brown's promise of racial equality. See Green, 391
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 329

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

U. S., at 440–442; see also North Carolina Bd. of Ed. v.
Swann, 402 U. S. 43, 45–46 (1971) (holding that North Caro-
lina statute that forbade the use of race in school busing “ex-
ploits an apparently neutral form to control school assign-
ment plans by directing that they be `colorblind'; that
requirement, against the background of segregation, would
render illusory the promise of Brown”); Dayton Bd. of Ed.
v. Brinkman, 443 U. S. 526, 538 (1979) (school board “had to
do more than abandon its prior discriminatory purpose”; it
“had an affrmative responsibility” to integrate); Keyes v.
School Dist. No. 1, Denver, 413 U. S. 189, 200 (1973) (“[T]he
State automatically assumes an affrmative duty” under
Brown to eliminate the vestiges of segregation).3
In so holding, this Court's post-Brown decisions rejected
arguments advanced by opponents of integration suggesting
that “restor[ing] race as a criterion in the operation of the
public schools” was at odds with “the Brown decisions.”
Page Proof Pending Publication
Brief for Respondents in Green v. School Bd. of New Kent
Cty., O. T. 1967, No. 695, p. 6 (Green Brief). Those oppo-
nents argued that Brown only required the admission of
Black students “to public schools on a racially nondiscrimina-
tory basis.” Green Brief 11 (emphasis deleted). Relying on
Justice Harlan's dissent in Plessy, they argued that the use of
race “is improper” because the “ `Constitution is colorblind.' ”
Green Brief 6, n. 6 (quoting Plessy, 163 U. S., at 559 (Harlan,
J., dissenting)). They also incorrectly claimed that their
views aligned with those of the Brown litigators, arguing
that the Brown plaintiffs “understood” that Brown's “man-

3
The majority suggests that “it required a Second Founding to undo”
programs that help ensure racial integration and therefore greater equal-
ity in education. Ante, at 230. At the risk of stating the blindingly obvi-
ous, and as Brown recognized, the Fourteenth Amendment was intended
to undo the effects of a world where laws systematically subordinated
Black people and created a racial caste system. Cf. Dred Scott v. Sand-
ford, 19 How. 393, 405 (1857). Brown and its progeny recognized the need
to take affrmative, race-conscious steps to eliminate that system.
330 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

date” was colorblindness. Green Brief 17. This Court re-
jected that characterization of “ the thrust of Brown. ”
Green, 391 U. S., at 437. It made clear that indifference
to race “is not an end in itself ” under that watershed deci-
sion. Id., at 440. The ultimate goal is racial equality of
opportunity.
Those re jected arguments mirror the Court's opinion
today. The Court claims that Brown requires that students
be admitted “ `on a racially nondiscriminatory basis. ' ”
Ante, at 204. It distorts the dissent in Plessy to advance a
colorblindness theory. Ante, at 230; see also ante, at 307
(Gorsuch, J., concurring) (“[T]oday's decision wakes the ech-
oes of Justice John Marshall Harlan [in Plessy]”); ante, at 233
(Thomas, J., concurring) (same). The Court also invokes the
Brown litigators, relying on what the Brown “plaintiffs had
argued.” Ante, at 204; ante, at 264–265, 268 n. 7 (opinion of
Thomas, J.).
Page Proof Pending Publication
If there was a Member of this Court who understood the
Brown litigation, it was Justice Thurgood Marshall, who “led
the litigation campaign” to dismantle segregation as a civil
rights lawyer and “rejected the hollow, race-ignorant concep-
tion of equal protection” endorsed by the Court's ruling
today. Brief for NAACP Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, Inc., et al. as Amici Curiae 9. Justice Marshall
joined the Bakke plurality and “applaud[ed] the judgment of
the Court that a university may consider race in its admis-
sions process.” 438 U. S., at 400. In fact, Justice Marshall's
view was that Bakke's holding should have been even more
protective of race-conscious college admissions programs in
light of the remedial purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment
and the legacy of racial inequality in our society. See id.,
at 396–402 (arguing that “a class-based remedy” should be
constitutionally permissible in light of the hundreds of “years
of class-based discrimination against [Black Americans]”).
The Court's recharacterization of Brown is nothing but revi-
sionist history and an affront to the legendary life of Justice
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 331

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Marshall, a great jurist who was a champion of true equal
opportunity, not rhetorical fourishes about colorblindness.

C
Two decades after Brown, in Bakke, a plurality of the
Court held that “the attainment of a diverse student body”
is a “compelling” and “constitutionally permissible goal for
an institution of higher education.” 438 U. S., at 311–315.
Race could be considered in the college admissions process
in pursuit of this goal, the plurality explained, if it is one
factor of many in an applicant's fle, and each applicant re-
ceives individualized review as part of a holistic admissions
process. Id., at 316–318.
Since Bakke, the Court has reaffrmed numerous times the
constitutionality of limited race-conscious college admissions.
First, in Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 306 (2003), a majority
of the Court endorsed the Bakke plurality's “view that stu-
Page Proof Pending Publication
dent body diversity is a compelling state interest that can
justify the use of race in university admissions,” 539 U. S., at
325, and held that race may be used in a narrowly tailored
manner to achieve this interest, id., at 333–344; see also
Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 244, 268 (2003) (“for the reasons
set forth [the same day] in Grutter,” rejecting petitioners'
arguments that race can only be considered in college admis-
sions “to remedy identifed discrimination” and that diver-
sity is “ `too open-ended, ill-defned, and indefnite to consti-
tute a compelling interest' ”).
Later, in the Fisher litigation, the Court twice reaffrmed
that a limited use of race in college admissions is consti-
tutionally permissible if it satisfes strict scrutiny. In
Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, 570 U. S. 297 (2013)
(Fisher I), seven Members of the Court concluded that the
use of race in college admissions comports with the Four-
teenth Amendment if it “is narrowly tailored to obtain the
educational benefts of diversity.” Id., at 314, 337. Several
years later, in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, 579
332 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

U. S. 365, 376 (2016) (Fisher II), the Court upheld the admis-
sions program at the University of Texas under this frame-
work. Id., at 380–388.
Bakke, Grutter, and Fisher are an extension of Brown's
legacy. Those decisions recognize that “ `experience lend[s]
support to the view that the contribution of diversity is sub-
stantial.' ” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 324 (quoting Bakke, 438
U. S., at 313). Racially integrated schools improve cross-
racial understanding, “break down racial stereotypes,” and
ensure that students obtain “the skills needed in today's
increasingly global marketplace . . . through exposure to
widely diverse people, cultures, ideas, and viewpoints.” 539
U. S., at 330. More broadly, inclusive institutions that are
“visibly open to talented and qualifed individuals of every
race and ethnicity” instill public confdence in the “legiti-
macy” and “integrity” of those institutions and the diverse
set of graduates that they cultivate. Id., at 332. That is
Page Proof Pending Publication
particularly true in the context of higher education, where
colleges and universities play a critical role in “maintaining
the fabric of society” and serve as “the training ground for
a large number of our Nation's leaders.” Id., at 331–332.
It is thus an objective of the highest order, a “compelling
interest” indeed, that universities pursue the benefts of ra-
cial diversity and ensure that “the diffusion of knowledge
and opportunity” is available to students of all races. Id., at
328–333.
This compelling interest in student body diversity is
grounded not only in the Court's equal protection jurispru-
dence but also in principles of “academic freedom,” which
“ `long [have] been viewed as a special concern of the First
Amendment.' ” Id., at 324 (quoting Bakke, 438 U. S., at 312).
In light of “the important purpose of public education and
the expansive freedoms of speech and thought associated
with the university environment,” this Court's precedents
recognize the imperative nature of diverse student bodies on
American college campuses. 539 U. S., at 329. Consistent
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 333

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

with the First Amendment, student body diversity allows
universities to promote “th[e] robust exchange of ideas which
discovers truth out of a multitude of tongues [rather] than
through any kind of authoritative selection.” Bakke, 438
U. S., at 312 (internal quotation marks omitted). Indeed, as
the Court recently reaffrmed in another school case, “learn-
ing how to tolerate diverse expressive activities has always
been `part of learning how to live in a pluralistic society' ”
under our constitutional tradition. Kennedy v. Bremerton
School Dist., 597 U. S. –––, ––– (2022); cf. Khorrami v. Ari-
zona, 598 U. S. –––, ––– (2022) (Gorsuch, J., dissenting from
denial of certiorari) (collecting research showing that larger
juries are more likely to be racially diverse and “deliberate
longer, recall information better, and pay greater attention
to dissenting voices”).
In short, for more than four decades, it has been this
Court's settled law that the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment authorizes a limited use of race in
Page Proof Pending Publication
college admissions in service of the educational benefts that
fow from a diverse student body. From Brown to Fisher,
this Court's cases have sought to equalize educational oppor-
tunity in a society structured by racial segregation and to
advance the Fourteenth Amendment's vision of an America
where racially integrated schools guarantee students of all
races the equal protection of the laws.

D
Today, the Court concludes that indifference to race is the
only constitutionally permissible means to achieve racial
equality in college admissions. That interpretation of the
Fourteenth Amendment is not only contrary to precedent
and the entire teachings of our history, see supra, at 319–
333, but is also grounded in the illusion that racial inequality
was a problem of a different generation. Entrenched racial
inequality remains a reality today. That is true for society
writ large and, more specifcally, for Harvard and the Uni-
334 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

versity of North Carolina (UNC), two institutions with a
long history of racial exclusion. Ignoring race will not
equalize a society that is racially unequal. What was true in
the 1860s, and again in 1954, is true today: Equality requires
acknowledgment of inequality.

1
After more than a century of government policies enforc-
ing racial segregation by law, society remains highly segre-
gated. About half of all Latino and Black students attend
a racially homogeneous school with at least 75% minority
student enrollment.4 The share of intensely segregated mi-
nority schools (i. e., schools that enroll 90% to 100% racial
minorities) has sharply increased.5 To this day, the U. S.
Department of Justice continues to enter into desegregation
decrees with schools that have failed to “eliminat[e] the ves-
tiges of de jure segregation.” 6
Page Proof Pending Publication
Moreover, underrepresented minority students are more
likely to live in poverty and attend schools with a high con-
centration of poverty.7 When combined with residential
segregation and school funding systems that rely heavily on
local property taxes, this leads to racial minority students
attending schools with fewer resources. See San Antonio
Independent School Dist. v. Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 1, 72–86
4
See GAO, Report to the Chairman, Committee on Education and
Labor, House of Representatives, K–12 Education: Student Population
Has Signifcantly Diversifed, but Many Schools Remain Divided Along
Racial, Ethnic, and Economic Lines 13 (GAO–22–104737, June 2022) (here-
inafter GAO Report).
5
G. Orfeld, E. Frankenberg, & J. Ayscue, Harming Our Common Fu-
ture: America's Segregated Schools 65 Years After Brown 21 (2019).
6
E. g., Bennett v. Madison Cty. Bd. of Ed., No. 5:63–CV–613 (ND Ala.,
July 5, 2022), ECF Doc. 199, p. 19; id., at 6 (requiring school district to
ensure “the participation of black students” in advanced courses).
7
GAO Report 6, 13 (noting that 80% of predominantly Black and Latino
schools have at least 75% of their students eligible for free or reduced-
price lunch—a proxy for poverty).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 335

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

(1973) (Marshall, J., dissenting) (noting school funding dispar-
ities that result from local property taxation).8 In turn, un-
derrepresented minorities are more likely to attend schools
with less qualifed teachers, less challenging curricula, lower
standardized test scores, and fewer extracurricular activities
and advanced placement courses.9 It is thus unsurprising
that there are achievement gaps along racial lines, even after
controlling for income differences.10
Systemic inequities disadvantaging underrepresented ra-
cial minorities exist beyond school resources. Students of
color, particularly Black students, are disproportionately dis-
ciplined or suspended, interrupting their academic progress
and increasing their risk of involvement with the crimi-
nal justice system.11 Underrepresented minorities are less
likely to have parents with a postsecondary education who
may be familiar with the college application process.12 Fur-
ther, low-income children of color are less likely to attend

Page Proof Pending Publication
8
See also L. Clark, Barbed Wire Fences: The Structural Violence of
Education Law, 89 U. Chi. L. Rev. 499, 502, 512–517 (2022); Albert Shanker
Institute, B. Baker, M. DiCarlo, & P. Greene, Segregation and School
Funding: How Housing Discrimination Reproduces Unequal Opportunity
17–19 (Apr. 2022).
9
See Brief for 25 Harvard Student and Alumni Organizations as Amici
Curiae 6–15 (collecting sources).
10
GAO Report 7; see also Brief for Council of the Great City Schools as
Amicus Curiae 11–14 (collecting sources).
11
See J. Okonofua & J. Eberhardt, Two Strikes: Race and the Disciplin-
ing of Young Students, 26 Psychol. Sci. 617 (2015) (a national survey
showed that “Black students are more than three times as likely to be
suspended or expelled as their White peers”); Brief for Youth Advocates
and Experts on Educational Access as Amici Curiae 14–15 (describing
investigation in North Carolina of a public school district, which found that
Black students were 6.1 times more likely to be suspended than white
students).
12
See, e. g., Dept. of Education, National Center for Education Statistics,
Digest of Education Statistics (2021) (Table 104.70) (showing that 59% of
white students and 78% of Asian students have a parent with a bachelor's
degree or higher, while the same is true for only 25% of Latino students
and 33% of Black students).
336 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

preschool and other early childhood education programs that
increase educational attainment.13 All of these interlocked
factors place underrepresented minorities multiple steps be-
hind the starting line in the race for college admissions.
In North Carolina, the home of UNC, racial inequality is
deeply entrenched in K–12 education. State courts have
consistently found that the State does not provide underrep-
resented racial minorities equal access to educational oppor-
tunities, and that racial disparities in public schooling have
increased in recent years, in violation of the State Constitu-
tion. See, e. g., Hoke Cty. Bd. of Ed. v. State, 2020 WL
13310241, *6, *13 (N. C. Super. Ct., Jan. 21, 2020); Hoke Cty.
Bd. of Ed. v. State, 382 N. C. 386, 388–390, 879 S. E. 2d 193,
197–198 (2022).
These opportunity gaps “result in fewer students from un-
derrepresented backgrounds even applying to” college, par-
ticularly elite universities. Brief for Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology et al. as Amici Curiae 32. “Because
Page Proof Pending Publication
talent lives everywhere, but opportunity does not, there are
undoubtedly talented students with great academic potential
who have simply not had the opportunity to attain the tradi-
tional indicia of merit that provide a competitive edge in
the admissions process.” Brief for Harvard Student and
Alumni Organizations as Amici Curiae 16. Consistent with
this reality, Latino and Black students are less likely to en-
roll in institutions of higher education than their white
peers.14
Given the central role that education plays in breaking the
cycle of racial inequality, these structural barriers reinforce

13
R. Crosnoe, K. Purtell, P. Davis-Kean, A. Ansari, & A. Benner, The
Selection of Children From Low-Income Families into Preschool, 52 J. De-
velopmental Psychology 11 (2016); A. Kenly & A. Klein, Early Childhood
Experiences of Black Children in a Diverse Midwestern Suburb, 24 J. Afri-
can American Studies 130, 136 (2020).
14
Dept. of Education, National Center for Education, Institute of Educa-
tional Science, The Condition of Education 2022, p. 24 (2020) (fg. 16).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 337

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

other forms of inequality in communities of color. See E.
Wilson, Monopolizing Whiteness, 134 Harv. L. Rev. 2382,
2416 (2021) (“[E]ducational opportunities . . . allow for social
mobility, better life outcomes, and the ability to participate
equally in the social and economic life of the democracy”).
Stark racial disparities exist, for example, in unemployment
rates,15 income levels,16 wealth and homeownership,17 and
healthcare access.18 See also Schuette v. BAMN, 572 U. S.
291, 380–381 (2014) (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (noting the
“persistent racial inequality in society”); Gratz, 539 U. S., at
299–301 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting) (cataloging racial dispari-
ties in employment, poverty, healthcare, housing, consumer
transactions, and education).
Put simply, society remains “inherently unequal. ”
Brown, 347 U. S., at 495. Racial inequality runs deep to this
very day. That is particularly true in education, the “ `most
vital civic institution for the preservation of a democratic
system of government.' ” Plyler v. Doe, 457 U. S. 202, 221,
Page Proof Pending Publication
223 (1982). As I have explained before, only with eyes open
to this reality can the Court “carry out the guarantee of equal
protection.” Schuette, 572 U. S., at 381 (dissenting opinion).

2
Both UNC and Harvard have sordid legacies of racial ex-
clusion. Because “[c]ontext matters” when reviewing race-
conscious college admissions programs, Grutter, 539 U. S., at
327, this reality informs the exigency of respondents' current
admissions policies and their racial diversity goals.
15
ProQuest Statistical Abstract of the United States: 2023, p. 402 (Table
622) (noting Black and Latino adults are more likely to be unemployed).
16
Id., at 173 (Table 259).
17
A. McCargo & J. Choi, Closing the Gaps: Building Black Wealth
Through Homeownership (2020) (fg. 1).
18
Dept. of Commerce, Census Bureau, Health Insurance Coverage in the
United States: 2021, p. 9 (fg. 5); id., at 29 (Table C–1), https://www.census.
gov/library/publications/2022/demo/p60-278.html (noting racial minorities,
particularly Latinos, are less likely to have health insurance coverage).
338 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

i
For much of its history, UNC was a bastion of white su-
premacy. Its leadership included “slaveholders, the leaders
of the Ku Klux Klan, the central fgures in the white suprem-
acy campaigns of 1898 and 1900, and many of the State's most
ardent defenders of Jim Crow and race-based Social Darwin-
ism in the twentieth century.” 3 App. in No. 21–707, p. 1680.
The university excluded all people of color from its faculty
and student body, glorifed the institution of slavery, en-
forced its own Jim Crow regulations, and punished any dis-
sent from racial orthodoxy. Id., at 1681–1683. It resisted
racial integration after this Court's decision in Brown, and
was forced to integrate by court order in 1955. 3 App. 1685.
It took almost 10 more years for the frst Black woman to
enroll at the university in 1963. See Karen L. Parker Col-
lection, 1963–1966, UNC Wilson Special Collections Library.
Even then, the university admitted only a handful of under-
Page Proof Pending Publication
represented racial minorities, and those students suffered
constant harassment, humiliation, and isolation. 3 App.
1685. UNC offcials openly resisted racial integration well
into the 1980s, years after the youngest Member of this
Court was born.19 Id., at 1688–1690. During that period,
Black students faced racial epithets and stereotypes, re-
ceived hate mail, and encountered Ku Klux Klan rallies on
campus. 2 id., at 781–784;3 id., at 1689.

19
In 1979, prompted by lawsuits fled by civil rights lawyers under Title
VI, the U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare “revoked
UNC's federal funding for its continued noncompliance” with Brown. 3
App. 1688; see Adams v. Richardson, 351 F. Supp. 636, 637 (DC 1972);
Adams v. Califano, 430 F. Supp. 118, 121 (DC 1977). North Carolina sued
the Federal Government in response, and North Carolina Senator Jesse
Helms introduced legislation to block federal desegregation efforts. 3
App. 1688. UNC praised those actions by North Carolina public offcials.
Ibid. The litigation ended in 1981, after the Reagan administration set-
tled with the State. See North Carolina v. Department of Education,
No. 79–217–CIV–5 (EDNC, July 17, 1981) (Consent Decree).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 339

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

To this day, UNC's deep-seated legacy of racial subjuga-
tion continues to manifest itself in student life. Buildings
on campus still bear the names of members of the Ku Klux
Klan and other white supremacist leaders. Id., at 1683.
Students of color also continue to experience racial harass-
ment, isolation, and tokenism.20 Plus, the student body re-
mains predominantly white: approximately 72% of UNC stu-
dents identify as white, while only 8% identify as Black. Id.,
at 1647. These numbers do not refect the diversity of the
State, particularly Black North Carolinians, who make up
22% of the population. Id., at 1648.
ii
UNC is not alone. Harvard, like other Ivy League univer-
sities in our country, “stood beside church and state as the
third pillar of a civilization built on bondage.” C. Wilder,
Ebony & Ivy: Race, Slavery, and the Troubled History of
America's Universities 11 (2013). From Harvard's founding,
Page Proof Pending Publication
slavery and racial subordination were integral parts of the in-
stitution's funding, intellectual production, and campus life.
Harvard and its donors had extensive fnancial ties to, and
profted from, the slave trade, the labor of enslaved people, and
slavery-related investments. As Harvard now recognizes,
the accumulation of this wealth was “vital to the University's
growth” and establishment as an elite, national institution.
Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery, Report by the President
and Fellows of Harvard College 7 (2022) (Harvard Report).
20
See 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 594 (MDNC 2021) (campus climate survey
showing inter alia that “91 percent of students heard insensitive and dis-
paraging racial remarks made by other students”); 2 App. in No. 21–707,
p. 1037 (Black student testifying that a white student called him “the N
wor[d]” and, on a separate occasion at a fraternity party, he was “told that
no slaves were allowed in”); id., at 955 (student testifying that he was “the
only African American student in the class,” which discouraged him from
speaking up about racially salient issues); id., at 762–763 (student describ-
ing that being “the only Latina” made it “hard to speak up” and made her
feel “foreign” and “an outsider”).
340 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Harvard suppressed antislavery views, and enslaved persons
“served Harvard presidents and professors and fed and cared
for Harvard students” on campus. Id., at 7, 15.
Exclusion and discrimination continued to be a part of
campus life well into the 20th century. Harvard's leadership
and prominent professors openly promoted “ `race science,' ”
racist eugenics, and other theories rooted in racial hierarchy.
Id., at 11. Activities to advance these theories “took place
on campus,” including “intrusive physical examinations” and
“photographing of unclothed” students. Ibid. The univer-
sity also “prized the admission of academically able Anglo-
Saxon students from elite backgrounds—including wealthy
white sons of the South.” Id., at 44. By contrast, an aver-
age of three Black students enrolled at Harvard each year
during the fve decades between 1890 and 1940. Id., at 45.
Those Black students who managed to enroll at Harvard “ex-
celled academically, earning equal or better academic records
Page Proof Pending Publication
than most white students,” but faced the challenges of the
deeply rooted legacy of slavery and racism on campus. Ibid.
Meanwhile, a few women of color attended Radcliffe Col-
lege, a separate and overwhelmingly white “women's annex”
where racial minorities were denied campus housing and
scholarships. Id., at 51. Women of color at Radcliffe were
taught by Harvard professors, but “women did not receive
Harvard degrees until 1963.” Ibid.; see also S. Bradley, Up-
ending the Ivory Tower: Civil Rights, Black Power, and the
Ivy League 17 (2018) (noting that the historical discussion of
racial integration at the Ivy League “is necessarily male-
centric,” given the historical exclusion of women of color
from these institutions).
Today, benefactors with ties to slavery and white suprem-
acy continue to be memorialized across campus through
“statues, buildings, professorships, student houses, and the
like.” Harvard Report 11. Black and Latino applicants ac-
count for only 20% of domestic applicants to Harvard each
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 341

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

year. App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 20–1199, p. 112. “Even
those students of color who beat the odds and earn an offer
of admission” continue to experience isolation and alienation
on campus. Brief for 25 Harvard Student and Alumni Orga-
nizations as Amici Curiae 30–31; 2 App. 823, 961. For
years, the university has reported that inequities on campus
remain. See, e. g., 4 App. 1564–1601. For example, Har-
vard has reported that “far too many black students at Har-
vard experience feelings of isolation and marginalization,” 3
id., at 1308, and that “student survey data show[ed] that only
half of Harvard undergraduates believe that the housing sys-
tem fosters exchanges between students of different back-
grounds,” id., at 1309.

* * *
These may be uncomfortable truths to some, but they are
truths nonetheless. “Institutions can and do change,” how-
ever, as societal and legal changes force them “to live up to
Page Proof Pending Publication
[their] highest ideals.” Harvard Report 56. It is against
this historical backdrop that Harvard and UNC have reck-
oned with their past and its lingering effects. Acknowledg-
ing the reality that race has always mattered and continues
to matter, these universities have established institutional
goals of diversity and inclusion. Consistent with equal pro-
tection principles and this Court's settled law, their policies
use race in a limited way with the goal of recruiting, admit-
ting, and enrolling underrepresented racial minorities to pur-
sue the well-documented benefts of racial integration in
education.
II
The Court today stands in the way of respondents' com-
mendable undertaking and entrenches racial inequality in
higher education. The majority opinion does so by turning
a blind eye to these truths and overruling decades of prece-
dent, “content for now to disguise” its ruling as an applica-
342 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

tion of “established law and move on.” Kennedy, 597 U. S.,
at ––– (Sotomayor, J., dissenting). As Justice Thomas
puts it, “Grutter is, for all intents and purposes, overruled.”
Ante, at 287.
It is a disturbing feature of today's decision that the Court
does not even attempt to make the extraordinary showing
required by stare decisis. The Court simply moves the goal-
posts, upsetting settled expectations and throwing admis-
sions programs nationwide into turmoil. In the end, how-
ever, it is clear why the Court is forced to change the rules
of the game to reach its desired outcome: Under a faithful
application of the Court's settled legal framework, Harvard
and UNC's admissions programs are constitutional and com-
ply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C.
§ 2000d et seq.21

21
The same standard that applies under the Equal Protection Clause
guides the Court's review under Title VI, as the majority correctly recog-
Page Proof Pending Publication
nizes. See ante, at 198, n. 2; see also Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke,
438 U. S. 265, 325 (1978) (Brennan, J., concurring). Justice Gorsuch ar-
gues that “Title VI bears independent force” and holds universities to an
even higher standard than the Equal Protection Clause. Ante, at 310.
Because no party advances Justice Gorsuch’s argument, see ante, at
198, n. 2, the Court properly declines to address it under basic principles
of party presentation. See United States v. Sineneng-Smith, 590 U. S.
–––, ––– (2020). Indeed, Justice Gorsuch’s approach calls for even more
judicial restraint. If petitioner could prevail under Justice Gorsuch's
statutory analysis, there would be no reason for this Court to reach the
constitutional question. See Escambia County v. McMillan, 466 U. S. 48,
51 (1984) (per curiam). In a statutory case, moreover, stare decisis car-
ries “enhanced force,” as it would be up to Congress to “correct any mis-
take it sees” with “our interpretive decisions.” Kimble v. Marvel Enter-
tainment, LLC, 576 U. S. 446, 456 (2015). Justice Gorsuch wonders
why the dissent, like the majority, does not “engage” with his statutory
arguments. Ante, at 302. The answer is simple: This Court plays “the
role of neutral arbiter of matters the parties present.” Greenlaw v.
United States, 554 U. S. 237, 243 (2008). Petitioner made a strategic liti-
gation choice, and in our adversarial system, it is not up to this Court to
come up with “wrongs to right” on behalf of litigants. Id., at 244 (internal
quotation marks omitted).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 343

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

A
Answering the question whether Harvard's and UNC's
policies survive strict scrutiny under settled law is straight-
forward, both because of the procedural posture of these
cases and because of the narrow scope of the issues pre-
sented by petitioner Students for Fair Admissions, Inc.
(SFFA).22
These cases arrived at this Court after two lengthy trials.
Harvard and UNC introduced dozens of fact witnesses, ex-
pert testimony, and documentary evidence in support of their
admissions programs. Brief for Petitioner 20, 40. SFFA,
by contrast, did not introduce a single fact witness and relied
on the testimony of two experts. Ibid.
After making detailed fndings of fact and conclusions of
law, the District Courts entered judgment in favor of Har-
vard and UNC. See 397 F. Supp. 3d 126, 133–206 (Mass.
2019) (Harvard I); 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 588–667 (MDNC
Page Proof Pending Publication
2021) (UNC). The First Circuit affrmed in the Harvard
case, fnding “no error” in the District Court's thorough opin-
ion. 980 F. 3d 157, 204 (2020) (Harvard II). SFFA then
fled petitions for a writ of certiorari in both cases, which the
Court granted. 595 U. S. ––– (2022).23
The Court granted certiorari on three questions: (1)
whether the Court should overrule Bakke, Grutter, and
Fisher; or, alternatively, (2) whether UNC's admissions pro-
gram is narrowly tailored, and (3) whether Harvard's admis-

22
SFFA is a 501(c)(3) nonproft organization founded after this Court's
decision in Fisher I, 570 U. S. 297 (2013). App. to Pet. for Cert. in No.
20–1199, p. 10. Its original board of directors had three self-appointed
members: Edward Blum, Abigail Fisher (the plaintiff in Fisher), and Rich-
ard Fisher. See ibid.
23
Bypassing the Fourth Circuit's opportunity to review the District
Court's opinion in the UNC case, SFFA sought certiorari before judgment,
urging that, “[p]aired with Harvard,” the UNC case would “allow the
Court to resolve the ongoing validity of race-based admissions under both
Title VI and the Constitution.” Pet. for Cert. in No. 21–707, p. 27.
344 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

sions program is narrowly tailored. See Brief for Petitioner
in No. 20–1199, p. i; Brief for Respondent in No. 20–1199,
p. i; Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–707, p. i.
Answering the last two questions, which call for application
of settled law to the facts of these cases, is simple: Deferring
to the lower courts' careful fndings of fact and credibility
determinations, Harvard's and UNC's policies are narrowly
tailored.
B
1
As to narrow tailoring, the only issue SFFA raises in the
UNC case is that the university cannot use race in its admis-
sions process because race-neutral alternatives would pro-
mote UNC's diversity objectives. That issue is so easily re-
solved in favor of UNC that SFFA devoted only three pages
to it at the end of its 87-page brief. Brief for Petitioner
83–86.
Page Proof Pending Publication
The use of race is narrowly tailored unless “workable” and
“available” race-neutral approaches exist, meaning race-
neutral alternatives promote the institution's diversity goals
and do so at “ `tolerable administrative expense.' ” Fisher
I, 570 U. S., at 312 (quoting Wygant v. Jackson Bd. of Ed.,
476 U. S. 267, 280, n. 6 (1986) (plurality opinion)). Narrow
tailoring does not mean perfect tailoring. The Court's prec-
edents make clear that “[n]arrow tailoring does not require
exhaustion of every conceivable race-neutral alternative.”
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 339. “Nor does it require a university
to choose between maintaining a reputation for excellence or
fulflling a commitment to provide educational opportunities
to members of all racial groups.” Ibid.
As the District Court found after considering extensive
expert testimony, SFFA's proposed race-neutral alternatives
do not meet those criteria. UNC, 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 648.
All of SFFA's proposals are methodologically fawed because
they rest on “ `terribly unrealistic' ” assumptions about the
applicant pools. Id., at 643–645, 647. For example, as to
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 345

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

one set of proposals, SFFA's expert “unrealistically as-
sumed” that “all of the top students in the candidate pools
he use[d] would apply, be admitted, and enroll.” Id., at 647.
In addition, some of SFFA's proposals force UNC to “aban-
don its holistic approach” to college admissions, id., at 643–
645, n. 43, a result “in deep tension with the goal of educa-
tional diversity as this Court's cases have defned it,” Fisher
II, 579 U. S., at 386–387. Others are “largely impractical—
not to mention unprecedented—in higher education.” 567
F. Supp. 3d, at 647. SFFA's proposed top percentage
plans,24 for example, are based on a made-up and complicated
admissions index that requires UNC to “access . . . real-time
data for all high school students.” Ibid. UNC is then sup-
posed to use that index, which “would change every time any
student took a standardized test,” to rank students based on
grades and test scores. Ibid. One of SFFA's top percent-
age plans would even “nearly erase the Native American in-
coming class” at UNC. Id., at 646. The courts below cor-
Page Proof Pending Publication
rectly concluded that UNC is not required to adopt SFFA's
unrealistic proposals to satisfy strict scrutiny.25

24
Generally speaking, top percentage plans seek to enroll a percentage
of the graduating high school students with the highest academic creden-
tials. See, e. g., Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 373 (describing the University of
Texas' Top Ten Percent Plan).
25
SFFA and Justice Gorsuch reach beyond the factfnding below and
argue that universities in States that have banned the use of race in college
admissions have achieved racial diversity through efforts such as increasing
socioeconomic preferences, so UNC could do the same. Brief for Petitioner
85–86; ante, at 299–300. Data from those States disprove that theory.
Institutions in those States experienced “ `an immediate and precipitous
decline in the rates at which underrepresented-minority students applied
. . . were admitted . . . and enrolled.' ” Schuette v. BAMN, 572 U. S. 291,
384–390 (2014) (Sotomayor, J., dissenting); see infra, at 377–379. In ad-
dition, UNC “already engages” in race-neutral efforts focused on socioeco-
nomic status, including providing “exceptional levels of fnancial aid” and
“increased and targeted recruiting.” UNC, 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 665.
Justice Gorsuch argues that he is simply “recount[ing] what SFFA
has argued.” Ante, at 300, n. 4. That is precisely the point: SFFA's ar-
guments were not credited by the court below. “[W]e are a court of re-
346 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

2
Harvard's admissions program is also narrowly tailored
under settled law. SFFA argues that Harvard's program is
not narrowly tailored because the university “has workable
race-neutral alternatives,” “does not use race as a mere
plus,” and “engages in racial balancing.” Brief for Peti-
tioner 75–83. As the First Circuit concluded, there was “no
error” in the District Court's fndings on any of these issues.
Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at 204.26
Like UNC, Harvard has already implemented many of
SFFA's proposals, such as increasing recruitment efforts and
fnancial aid for low-income students. Id., at 193. Also like
UNC, Harvard “carefully considered” other race-neutral
ways to achieve its diversity goals, but none of them are
“workable.” Id., at 193–194. SFFA's argument before this
Court is that Harvard should adopt a plan designed by
SFFA's expert for purposes of trial, which increases prefer-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ences for low-income applicants and eliminates the use of
race and legacy preferences. Id., at 193; Brief for Petitioner
81. Under SFFA's model, however, Black representation
would plummet by about 32%, and the admitted share of ap-
plicants with high academic ratings would decrease, as would
the share with high extracurricular and athletic ratings.
980 F. 3d, at 194. SFFA's proposal, echoed by Justice Gor-
such, ante, at 300, requires Harvard to “make sacrifces on
almost every dimension important to its admissions process,”
view, not of frst view.” Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709, 718, n. 7
(2005). Justice Gorsuch also suggests it is inappropriate for the dissent
to respond to the majority by relying on materials beyond the fndings of
fact below. Ante, at 300, n. 4. There would be no need for the dissent
to do that if the majority stuck to reviewing the District Court's careful
factfnding with the deference it owes to the trial court. Because the
majority has made a different choice, the dissent responds.
26
SFFA also argues that Harvard discriminates against Asian American
students. Brief for Petitioner 72–75. As explained below, this claim
does not ft under Grutter's strict scrutiny framework, and the courts
below did not err in rejecting that claim. See infra, at 374–375.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 347

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

980 F. 3d, at 194, and forces it “to choose between a diverse
student body and a reputation for academic excellence,”
Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 385. Neither this Court's precedents
nor common sense impose that type of burden on colleges
and universities.
The courts below also properly rejected SFFA's argument
that Harvard does not use race in the limited way this
Court's precedents allow. The Court has explained that a
university can consider a student's race in its admissions
process so long as that use is “contextual and does not oper-
ate as a mechanical plus factor.” Id., at 375. The Court
has also repeatedly held that race, when considered as one
factor of many in the context of holistic review, “can make a
difference to whether an application is accepted or rejected.”
Ibid. After all, race-conscious admissions seek to improve
racial diversity. Race cannot, however, be “ `decisive' for
virtually every minimally qualifed underrepresented minor-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ity applicant.” Gratz, 539 U. S., at 272 (quoting Bakke, 438
U. S., at 317).
That is precisely how Harvard's program operates. In re-
cent years, Harvard has received about 35,000 applications
for a class with about 1,600 seats. 980 F. 3d, at 165. The
admissions process is exceedingly competitive; it involves
six different application components. Those components in-
clude interviews with alumni and admissions offcers, as well
as consideration of a whole range of information, such as
grades, test scores, recommendation letters, and personal es-
says, by several committees. Id., at 165–166. Consistent
with that “individualized, holistic review process,” admis-
sions offcers may, but need not, consider a student's self-
reported racial identity when assigning overall ratings. Id.,
at 166, 169, 180. Even after so many layers of competitive
review, Harvard typically ends up with about 2,000 tentative
admits, more students than the 1,600 or so that the univer-
sity can admit. Id., at 170. To choose among those highly
qualifed candidates, Harvard considers “plus factors,” which
348 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

can help “tip an applicant into Harvard's admitted class.”
Id., at 170, 191. To diversify its class, Harvard awards
“tips” for a variety of reasons, including geographic factors,
socioeconomic status, ethnicity, and race. Ibid.
There is “no evidence of any mechanical use of tips.” Id.,
at 180. Consistent with the Court's precedents, Harvard
properly “considers race as part of a holistic review process,”
“values all types of diversity,” “does not consider race exclu-
sively,” and “does not award a fxed amount of points to ap-
plicants because of their race.” Id., at 190.27 Indeed, Har-
vard's admissions process is so competitive and the use of
race is so limited and fexible that, as “SFFA's own expert's
analysis” showed, “Harvard rejects more than two-thirds of
Hispanic applicants and slightly less than half of all African-
American applicants who are among the top 10% most aca-
demically promising applicants.” Id., at 191.
The courts below correctly rejected SFFA's view that Har-
Page Proof Pending Publication
vard's use of race is unconstitutional because it impacts over-
all Hispanic and Black student representation by 45%. See
Brief for Petitioner 79. That 45% fgure shows that elimi-
nating the use of race in admissions “would reduce African
American representation . . . from 14% to 6% and Hispanic
representation from 14% to 9%.” Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at
180, 191. Such impact of Harvard's limited use of race on
the makeup of the class is less than this Court has previously
upheld as narrowly tailored. In Grutter, for example, elimi-
nating the use of race would have reduced the underrepre-
sented minority population by 72%, a much greater effect.

27
Justice Gorsuch suggests that only “applicants of certain races may
receive a `tip' in their favor.” Ante, at 295. To the extent Justice Gor-
such means that some races are not eligible to receive a tip based on their
race, there is no evidence in the record to support this statement. Har-
vard “does not explicitly prioritize any particular racial group over any
other and permits its admissions offcers to evaluate the racial and ethnic
identity of every student in the context of his or her background and cir-
cumstances.” Harvard I, 397 F. Supp. 3d 126, 190, n. 56 (Mass. 2019).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 349

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

539 U. S., at 320. And in Fisher II, the use of race helped
increase Hispanic representation from 11% to 16.9% (a 54%
increase) and African-American representation from 3.5% to
6.8% (a 94% increase). 579 U. S., at 384.28
Finally, the courts below correctly concluded that Harvard
complies with this Court's repeated admonition that colleges
and universities cannot defne their diversity interest “as
`some specifed percentage of a particular group merely be-

28
Relying on a single footnote in the First Circuit's opinion, the Court
claims that Harvard's program is unconstitutional because it “has led to an
11.1% decrease in the number of Asian-Americans admitted to Harvard.”
Ante, at 218. The Court of Appeals, however, merely noted that the
United States, at the time represented by a different administration, ar-
gued that “absent the consideration of race, [Asian American] representa-
tion would increase from 24% to 27%,” an 11% increase. Harvard II, 980
F. 3d, at 191, n. 29. Taking those calculations as correct, the Court of
Appeals recognized that such an impact from the use of race on the overall
makeup of the class is consistent with the impact that this Court's prece-
Page Proof Pending Publication
dents have tolerated. Ibid.
The Court also notes that “race is determinative for at least some—if
not many—of the students” admitted at UNC. Ante, at 219. The Dis-
trict Court in the UNC case found that “race plays a role in a very small
percentage of decisions: 1.2% for in-state students and 5.1% for out-of-
state students.” 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 634 (MDNC 2021). The limited use
of race at UNC thus has a smaller effect than at Harvard and is also
consistent with the Court's precedents. In addition, contrary to the ma-
jority's suggestion, such effect does not prove that “race alone . . . explains
the admissions decisions for hundreds if not thousands of applicants to
UNC each year.” Ante, at 219, n. 6. As the District Court found, UNC
(like Harvard) “engages a highly individualized, holistic review of each
applicant's fle, which considers race fexibly as a `plus factor' as one among
many factors in its individualized consideration of each and every appli-
cant.” 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 662; see id., at 658 (fnding that UNC “rewards
different kinds of diversity, and evaluates a candidate within the context
of their lived experience”); id., at 659 (“The parties stipulated, and the
evidence shows, that readers evaluate applicants by taking into consider-
ation dozens of criteria,” and even SFFA's expert “concede[d] that the
University's admissions process is individualized and holistic”). Stated
simply, race is not “a defning feature of any individual application.” Id.,
at 662; see also infra, at 363.
350 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

cause of its race or ethnic origin.' ” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at
311 (quoting Bakke, 438 U. S., at 307). Harvard does not
specify its diversity objectives in terms of racial quotas, and
“SFFA did not offer expert testimony to support its racial
balancing claim.” Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at 180, 186–187.
Harvard's statistical evidence, by contrast, showed that the
admitted classes across racial groups varied considerably
year to year, a pattern “inconsistent with the imposition of
a racial quota or racial balancing.” Harvard I, 397 F. Supp.
3d, at 176–177; see Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at 180, 188–189.
Similarly, Harvard's use of “one-pagers” containing “a
snapshot of various demographic characteristics of Harvard's
applicant pool” during the admissions review process is per-
fectly consistent with this Court's precedents. Id., at 170–
171, 189. Consultation of these reports, with no “specifc
number frmly in mind,” “does not transform [Harvard's]
program into a quota.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 335–336.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Rather, Harvard's ongoing review complies with the Court's
command that universities periodically review the necessity
of the use of race in their admissions programs. Id., at 342;
Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 388.
The Court ignores these careful fndings and concludes
that Harvard engages in racial balancing because its “focus
on numbers is obvious.” Ante, at 222. Because SFFA
failed to offer an expert and to prove its claim below, the
majority is forced to reconstruct the record and conduct its
own factual analysis. It thus relies on a single chart from
SFFA's brief that truncates relevant data in the record.
Compare ibid. (citing Brief for Petitioner in No. 20–1199,
p. 23) with 4 App. in No. 20–1199, p. 1770. That chart cannot
displace the careful factfnding by the District Court, which
the First Circuit upheld on appeal under clear error review.
See Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at 180–182, 188–189.
In any event, the chart is misleading and ignores “the
broader context” of the underlying data that it purports
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 351

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

to summarize. Id., at 188. As the First Circuit con-
cluded, what the data actually show is that admissions have
increased for all racial minorities, including Asian Ameri-
can students, whose admissions numbers have “increased
roughly fve-fold since 1980 and roughly two-fold since 1990.”
Id., at 180, 188. The data also show that the racial shares
of admitted applicants fuctuate more than the correspond-
ing racial shares of total applicants, which is “the oppo-
site of what one would expect if Harvard imposed a quota.”
Id., at 188. Even looking at the Court's truncated period
for the classes of 2009 to 2018, “the same pattern holds.”
Ibid. The fact that Harvard's racial shares of admit-
ted applicants “varies relatively little in absolute terms
for [those classes] is unsurprising and refects the fact that
the racial makeup of Harvard's applicant pool also varies
very little over this period.” Id., at 188–189. Thus, prop-
erly understood, the data show that Harvard “does not uti-
lize quotas and does not engage in racial balancing.” Id.,
Page Proof Pending Publication
at 189.29

29
The majority does not dispute that it has handpicked data from a trun-
cated period, ignoring the broader context of that data and what the data
refect. Instead, the majority insists that its selected data prove that
Harvard's “precise racial preferences” “operate like clockwork.” Ante, at
222–223, n. 7. The Court's conclusion that such racial preferences must
be responsible for an “unyielding demographic composition of [the] class,”
ibid., misunderstands basic principles of statistics. A number of factors
(most notably, the demographic composition of the applicant pool) affect
the demographic composition of the entering class. Assume, for example,
that Harvard admitted students based solely on standardized test scores.
If test scores followed a normal distribution (even with different averages
by race) and were relatively constant over time, and if the racial shares of
total applicants were also relatively constant over time, one would expect
the same “unyielding demographic composition of [the] class.” Ibid.
That would be true even though, under that hypothetical scenario, Har-
vard does not consider race in admissions at all. In other words, the
Court's inference that precise racial preferences must be the cause of rela-
tively constant racial shares of admitted students is specious.
352 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

III
The Court concludes that Harvard's and UNC's policies
are unconstitutional because they serve objectives that are
insuffciently measurable, employ racial categories that are
imprecise and overbroad, rely on racial stereotypes and dis-
advantage nonminority groups, and do not have an end point.
Ante, at 213–225, 230. In reaching this conclusion, the
Court claims those supposed issues with respondents' pro-
grams render the programs insuffciently “narrow” under the
strict scrutiny framework that the Court's precedents com-
mand. Ante, at 213. In reality, however, “the Court today
cuts through the kudzu” and overrules its “higher-education
precedents” following Bakke. Ante, at 307 (Gorsuch, J.,
concurring).
There is no better evidence that the Court is overruling
the Court's precedents than those precedents themselves.
“Every one of the arguments made by the majority can be
Page Proof Pending Publication
found in the dissenting opinions fled in [the] cases” the ma-
jority now overrules. Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 846
(1991) (Marshall, J., dissenting); see, e. g., Grutter, 539 U. S.,
at 354 (Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)
(“Unlike the majority, I seek to defne with precision the in-
terest being asserted”); Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 389 (Thomas,
J., dissenting) (race-conscious admissions programs “res[t] on
pernicious assumptions about race”); id., at 403 (Alito, J.,
joined by Roberts, C. J., and Thomas, J., dissenting) (diver-
sity interests “are laudable goals, but they are not concrete
or precise”); id., at 413 (race-conscious college admissions
plan “discriminates against Asian-American students”); id.,
at 414 (race-conscious admissions plan is unconstitutional
because it “does not specify what it means to be `African-
American,' `Hispanic,' `Asian American,' `Native American,'
or `White' ”); id., at 419 (race-conscious college admissions
policies rest on “pernicious stereotype[s]”).
Lost arguments are not grounds to overrule a case.
When proponents of those arguments, greater now in num-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 353

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

ber on the Court, return to fght old battles anew, it betrays
an unrestrained disregard for precedent. It fosters the Peo-
ple's suspicions that “bedrock principles are founded . . . in
the proclivities of individuals” on this Court, not in the law,
and it degrades “the integrity of our constitutional system
of government.” Vasquez v. Hillery, 474 U. S. 254, 265
(1986). Nowhere is the damage greater than in cases like
these that touch upon matters of representation and institu-
tional legitimacy.
The Court offers no justifcation, much less “a `special
justifcation,' ” for its costly endeavor. Dobbs v. Jackson
Women's Health Organization, 597 U. S. –––, ––– (2022)
( joint opinion of Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., dis-
senting) (quoting Gamble v. United States, 587 U. S. –––, –––
(2019)). Nor could it. There is no basis for overruling
Bakke, Grutter, and Fisher. The Court's precedents were
correctly decided, the opinion today is not workable and cre-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ates serious equal protection problems, important reliance
interests favor respondents, and there are no legal or factual
developments favoring the Court's reckless course. See 597
U. S., at ––– ( joint opinion of Breyer, Sotomayor, and
Kagan, JJ., dissenting); id., at ––– – ––– (Kavanaugh, J.,
concurring). At bottom, the six unelected Members of to-
day's majority upend the status quo based on their policy
preferences about what race in America should be like, but
is not, and their preferences for a veneer of colorblindness in
a society where race has always mattered and continues to
matter in fact and in law.
A
1
A limited use of race in college admissions is consistent
with the Fourteenth Amendment and this Court's broader
equal protection jurisprudence. The text and history of the
Fourteenth Amendment make clear that the Equal Protec-
tion Clause permits race-conscious measures. See supra, at
354 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

319–326. Consistent with that view, the Court has explicitly
held that “race-based action” is sometimes “within constitu-
tional constraints.” Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Peña,
515 U. S. 200, 237 (1995). The Court has thus upheld the use
of race in a variety of contexts. See, e. g., Parents Involved
in Community Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. 1, 551
U. S. 701, 737 (2007) (“[T]he obligation to disestablish a
school system segregated by law can include race-conscious
remedies—whether or not a court had issued an order to that
effect”); Johnson v. California, 543 U. S. 499, 512 (2005) (use
of race permissible to further prison's interest in “ `security' ”
and “ `discipline' ”); Cooper v. Harris, 581 U. S. 285, 291–293
(2017) (use of race permissible when drawing voting districts
in some circumstances).30
Tellingly, in sharp contrast with today's decision, the
Court has allowed the use of race when that use burdens
minority populations. In United States v. Brignoni-Ponce,
Page Proof Pending Publication
422 U. S. 873 (1975), for example, the Court held that it is
unconstitutional for border patrol agents to rely on a person's
skin color as “a single factor” to justify a traffc stop based
on reasonable suspicion, but it remarked that “Mexican ap-
pearance” could be “a relevant factor” out of many to justify
such a stop “at the border and its functional equivalents.”
Id., at 884–887; see also id., at 882 (recognizing that “the
border” includes entire metropolitan areas such as San
Diego, El Paso, and the South Texas Rio Grande Valley).31
The Court thus facilitated racial profling of Latinos as a law
enforcement tool and did not adopt a race-blind rule. The

30
In the context of policies that “beneft rather than burden the minor-
ity,” the Court has adhered to a strict scrutiny framework despite multiple
Members of this Court urging that “the mandate of the Equal Protection
Clause” favors applying a less exacting standard of review. Schuette, 572
U. S., at 373–374 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (collecting cases).
31
The Court's “dictum” that Mexican appearance can be one of many
factors rested on now-outdated quantitative premises. United States v.
Montero-Camargo, 208 F. 3d 1122, 1132 (CA9 2000).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 355

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Court later extended this reasoning to border patrol agents
selectively referring motorists for secondary inspection at a
checkpoint, concluding that “even if it be assumed that such
referrals are made largely on the basis of apparent Mexi-
can ancestry, [there is] no constitutional violation.” United
States v. Martinez-Fuerte, 428 U. S. 543, 562–563 (1976)
(footnote omitted).
The result of today's decision is that a person's skin color
may play a role in assessing individualized suspicion, but it
cannot play a role in assessing that person's individualized
contributions to a diverse learning environment. That inde-
fensible reading of the Constitution is not grounded in law
and subverts the Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee of
equal protection.
2
The majority does not dispute that some uses of race are
constitutionally permissible. See ante, at 206–207. Indeed,
Page Proof Pending Publication
it agrees that a limited use of race is permissible in some
college admissions programs. In a footnote, the Court ex-
empts military academies from its ruling in light of “the po-
tentially distinct interests” they may present. Ante, at 213,
n. 4. To the extent the Court suggests national security in-
terests are “distinct,” those interests cannot explain the
Court's narrow exemption, as national security interests are
also implicated at civilian universities. See infra, at 379–
380. The Court also attempts to justify its carveout based
on the fact that “[n]o military academy is a party to these
cases.” Ante, at 213, n. 4. Yet the same can be said of
many other institutions that are not parties here, including
the religious universities supporting respondents, which the
Court does not similarly exempt from its sweeping opinion.
See Brief for Georgetown University et al. as Amici Curiae
18–29 (Georgetown Brief) (Catholic colleges and universities
noting that they rely on the use of race in their holistic ad-
missions to further not just their academic goals, but also
their religious missions); see also Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at
356 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

187, n. 24 (“[S]chools that consider race are diverse on nu-
merous dimensions, including in terms of religious affliation,
location, size, and courses of study offered”). The Court's
carveout only highlights the arbitrariness of its decision and
further proves that the Fourteenth Amendment does not cat-
egorically prohibit the use of race in college admissions.
The concurring opinions also agree that the Constitution
tolerates some racial classifcations. Justice Gorsuch
agrees with the majority's conclusion that racial classifca-
tions are constitutionally permissible if they advance a com-
pelling interest in a narrowly tailored way. Ante, at 308.
Justice Kavanaugh, too, agrees that the Constitution per-
mits the use of race if it survives strict scrutiny. Ante, at
311.32 Justice Thomas offers an “originalist defense of the
colorblind Constitution,” but his historical analysis leads to
the inevitable conclusion that the Constitution is not, in fact,
colorblind. Ante, at 232. Like the majority opinion, Jus-
tice Thomas agrees that race can be used to remedy past
Page Proof Pending Publication
discrimination and “to equalize treatment against a concrete
baseline of government-imposed inequality.” Ante, at 248–
251. He also argues that race can be used if it satisfes strict
scrutiny more broadly, and he considers compelling interests
those that prevent anarchy, curb violence, and segregate
prisoners. Ante, at 255. Thus, although Justice Thomas
at times suggests that the Constitution only permits “di-
rectly remedial” measures that beneft “identifed victims of
discrimination,” ante, at 249, he agrees that the Constitution
tolerates a much wider range of race-conscious measures.
32
Justice Kavanaugh agrees that the effects from the legacy of slav-
ery and Jim Crow continue today, citing Justice Marshall's opinion in
Bakke. Ante, at 316 (citing 438 U. S., at 395–402). As explained above,
Justice Marshall's view was that Bakke covered only a portion of the Four-
teenth Amendment's sweeping reach, such that the Court's higher edu-
cation precedents must be expanded, not constricted. See 438 U. S., at
395–402 (opinion dissenting in part). Justice Marshall's reading of the
Fourteenth Amendment does not support Justice Kavanaugh's and the
majority's opinions.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 357

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

In the end, when the Court speaks of a “colorblind” Consti-
tution, it cannot really mean it, for it is faced with a body of
law that recognizes that race-conscious measures are permis-
sible under the Equal Protection Clause. Instead, what the
Court actually lands on is an understanding of the Constitu-
tion that is “colorblind” sometimes, when the Court so
chooses. Behind those choices lie the Court's own value
judgments about what type of interests are suffciently com-
pelling to justify race-conscious measures.
Overruling decades of precedent, today's newly consti-
tuted Court singles out the limited use of race in holistic
college admissions. It strikes at the heart of Bakke, Grut-
ter, and Fisher by holding that racial diversity is an “ines-
capably imponderable” objective that cannot justify race-
conscious affrmative action, ante, at 215, even though
respondents' objectives simply “mirror the `compelling inter-
est' this Court has approved” many times in the past.
Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 382; see, e. g., UNC, 567 F. Supp. 3d,
Page Proof Pending Publication
at 598 (“the [university's admissions policy] repeatedly cites
Supreme Court precedent as guideposts”).33 At bottom,
without any new factual or legal justifcation, the Court
overrides its longstanding holding that diversity in higher
education is of compelling value.
To avoid public accountability for its choice, the Court
seeks cover behind a unique measurability requirement of
its own creation. None of this Court's precedents, however,
requires that a compelling interest meet some threshold level
33
There is no dispute that respondents' compelling diversity objectives
are “substantial, long-standing, and well documented.” UNC, 567
F. Supp. 3d, at 655; Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at 186–187. SFFA did not
dispute below that respondents have a compelling interest in diversity.
See id., at 185; Harvard I, 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 133; Tr. of Oral Arg. in No.
21–707, p. 121. And its expert agreed that valuable educational benefts
fow from diversity, including richer and deeper learning, reduced bias,
and more creative problem solving. 2 App. in No. 21–707, at 546. SFFA's
counsel also emphatically disclaimed the issue at trial. 2 App. in No. 20–
1199, p. 548 (“Diversity and its benefts are not on trial here”).
358 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

of precision to be deemed suffciently compelling. In fact,
this Court has recognized as compelling plenty of interests
that are equally or more amorphous, including the “intangi-
ble” interest in preserving “public confdence in judicial in-
tegrity,” an interest that “does not easily reduce to precise
defnition.” Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar, 575 U. S. 433,
447, 454 (2015) (Roberts, C. J., for the Court); see also, e. g.,
Ramirez v. Collier, 595 U. S. –––, ––– (2022) (Roberts, C. J.,
for the Court) (“[M]aintaining solemnity and decorum in
the execution chamber” is a “compelling” interest); United
States v. Alvarez, 567 U. S. 709, 725 (2012) (plurality opinion)
(“[P]rotecting the integrity of the Medal of Honor” is a “com-
pelling interes[t]”); Sable Communications of Cal., Inc. v.
FCC, 492 U. S. 115, 126 (1989) (“[P]rotecting the physical and
psychological well-being of minors” is a “compelling inter-
est”). Thus, although the Members of this majority pay lip
service to respondents' “commendable” and “worthy” racial
diversity goals, ante, at 214–215, they make a clear value judg-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ment today: Racial integration in higher education is not suf-
fciently important to them. “Today, the proclivities of indi-
viduals rule.” Dobbs, 597 U. S., at ––– (dissenting opinion).
The majority offers no response to any of this. Instead,
it attacks a straw man, arguing that the Court's cases recog-
nize that remedying the effects of “societal discrimination”
does not constitute a compelling interest. Ante, at 226–227.
Yet as the majority acknowledges, while Bakke rejected that
interest as insuffciently compelling, it upheld a limited use
of race in college admissions to promote the educational ben-
efts that fow from diversity. 438 U. S., at 311–315. It is
that narrower interest, which the Court has reaffrmed nu-
merous times since Bakke and as recently as 2016 in Fisher
II, see supra, at 331–332, that the Court overrules today.

B
The Court's precedents authorizing a limited use of race
in college admissions are not just workable—they have been
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 359

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

working. Lower courts have consistently applied them
without issue, as exemplifed by the opinions below and
SFFA's and the Court's inability to identify any split of au-
thority. Today, the Court replaces this settled framework
with a set of novel restraints that create troubling equal pro-
tection problems and share one common purpose: to make it
impossible to use race in a holistic way in college admissions,
where it is much needed.
1
The Court argues that Harvard's and UNC's programs
must end because they unfairly disadvantage some racial
groups. According to the Court, college admissions are a
“zero-sum” game and respondents' use of race unfairly “ad-
vantages” underrepresented minority students “at the ex-
pense of ” other students. Ante, at 218–219.
That is not the role race plays in holistic admissions. Con-
sistent with the Court's precedents, respondents' holistic re-
Page Proof Pending Publication
view policies consider race in a very limited way. Race is
only one factor out of many. That type of system allows
Harvard and UNC to assemble a diverse class on a multitude
of dimensions. Respondents' policies allow them to select
students with various unique attributes, including talented
athletes, artists, scientists, and musicians. They also allow
respondents to assemble a class with diverse viewpoints, in-
cluding students who have different political ideologies and
academic interests, who have struggled with different types
of disabilities, who are from various socioeconomic back-
grounds, who understand different ways of life in various
parts of the country, and—yes—students who self-identify
with various racial backgrounds and who can offer different
perspectives because of that identity.
That type of multidimensional system benefts all stu-
dents. In fact, racial groups that are not underrepresented
tend to beneft disproportionately from such a system. Har-
vard's holistic system, for example, provides points to appli-
cants who qualify as “ALDC,” meaning “athletes, legacy ap-
360 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

plicants, applicants on the Dean's Interest List [primarily
relatives of donors], and children of faculty or staff.” Har-
vard II, 980 F. 3d, at 171 (noting also that “SFFA does not
challenge the admission of this large group”). ALDC appli-
cants are predominantly white: Around 67.8% are white,
11.4% are Asian American, 6% are Black, and 5.6% are Lat-
ino. Ibid. By contrast, only 40.3% of non-ALDC applicants
are white, 28.3% are Asian American, 11% are Black, and
12.6% are Latino. Ibid. Although “ALDC applicants make
up less than 5% of applicants to Harvard,” they constitute
“around 30% of the applicants admitted each year.” Ibid.
Similarly, because of achievement gaps that result from en-
trenched racial inequality in K–12 education, see infra, at
334–337, a heavy emphasis on grades and standardized test
scores disproportionately disadvantages underrepresented
racial minorities. Stated simply, race is one small piece of a
much larger admissions puzzle where most of the pieces dis-
Page Proof Pending Publication
favor underrepresented racial minorities. That is precisely
why underrepresented racial minorities remain underrepre-
sented. The Court's suggestion that an already advantaged
racial group is “disadvantaged” because of a limited use of
race is a myth.
The majority's true objection appears to be that a limited
use of race in college admissions does, in fact, achieve what
it is designed to achieve: It helps equalize opportunity and
advances respondents' objectives by increasing the number
of underrepresented racial minorities on college campuses,
particularly Black and Latino students. This is unaccept-
able, the Court says, because racial groups that are not un-
derrepresented “would be admitted in greater numbers”
without these policies. Ante, at 219. Reduced to its sim-
plest terms, the Court's conclusion is that an increase in the
representation of racial minorities at institutions of higher
learning that were historically reserved for white Americans
is an unfair and repugnant outcome that offends the Equal
Protection Clause. It provides a license to discriminate
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 361

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

against white Americans, the Court says, which requires the
courts and state actors to “pic[k] the right races to beneft.”
Ante, at 229.
Nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment or its history sup-
ports the Court's shocking proposition, which echoes argu-
ments made by opponents of Reconstruction-era laws and
this Court's decision in Brown. Supra, at 319–331. In a so-
ciety where opportunity is dispensed along racial lines, racial
equality cannot be achieved without making room for under-
represented groups that for far too long were denied admis-
sion through the force of law, including at Harvard and UNC.
Quite the opposite: A racially integrated vision of society, in
which institutions refect all sectors of the American public
and where “the sons of former slaves and the sons of former
slave owners [are] able to sit down together at the table of
brotherhood,” is precisely what the Equal Protection Clause
commands. Martin Luther King “I Have a Dream” Speech
(Aug. 28, 1963). It is “essential if the dream of one Nation,
Page Proof Pending Publication
indivisible, is to be realized.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 332.34
By singling out race, the Court imposes a special burden
on racial minorities for whom race is a crucial component of
their identity. Holistic admissions require “truly individual-
34
The Court suggests that promoting the Fourteenth Amendment's vi-
sion of equality is a “radical” claim of judicial power and the equivalent of
“pick[ing] winners and losers based on the color of their skin.” Ante, at
229–230. The law sometimes requires consideration of race to achieve
racial equality. Just like drawing district lines that comply with the Vot-
ing Rights Act may require consideration of race along with other demo-
graphic factors, achieving racial diversity in higher education requires
consideration of race along with “age, economic status, religious and politi-
cal persuasion, and a variety of other demographic factors.” Shaw v.
Reno, 509 U. S. 630, 646 (1993) (“[R]ace consciousness does not lead inevi-
tably to impermissible race discrimination”). Moreover, in ordering the
admission of Black children to all-white schools “with all deliberate speed”
in Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U. S. 294, 301 (1955), this Court did
not decide that the Black children should receive an “advantag[e] . . . at
the expense of ” white children. Ante, at 219. It simply enforced the
Equal Protection Clause by leveling the playing feld.
362 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

ized consideration” of the whole person. Id., at 334. Yet,
“by foreclosing racial considerations, colorblindness denies
those who racially self-identify the full expression of their
identity” and treats “racial identity as inferior” among all
“other forms of social identity.” E. Boddie, The Indignities
of Colorblindness, 64 UCLA L. Rev. Discourse 64, 67 (2016).
The Court's approach thus turns the Fourteenth Amend-
ment's equal protection guarantee on its head and creates an
equal protection problem of its own.
There is no question that minority students will bear the
burden of today's decision. Students of color testifed at
trial that racial self-identifcation was an important compo-
nent of their application because without it they would not
be able to present a full version of themselves. For exam-
ple, Rimel Mwamba, a Black UNC alumna, testifed that it
was “really important” that UNC see who she is “holistically
and how the color of [her] skin and the texture of [her] hair
Page Proof Pending Publication
impacted [her] upbringing.” 2 App. in No. 21–707, at 1033.
Itzel Vasquez-Rodriguez, who identifes as Mexican-Ameri-
can of Cora descent, testifed that her ethnoracial identity is
a “core piece” of who she is and has impacted “every experi-
ence” she has had, such that she could not explain her “poten-
tial contributions to Harvard without any reference” to it.
2 App. in No. 20–1199, at 906, 908. Sally Chen, a Harvard
alumna who identifes as Chinese American, explained that
being the child of Chinese immigrants was “really fundamen-
tal to explaining who” she is. Id., at 968–969. Thang Diep,
a Harvard alumnus, testifed that his Vietnamese identity
was “such a big part” of himself that he needed to discuss
it in his application. Id., at 949. And Sarah Cole, a Black
Harvard alumna, emphasized that “[t]o try to not see [her]
race is to try to not see [her] simply because there is no part
of [her] experience, no part of [her] journey, no part of [her]
life that has been untouched by [her] race.” Id., at 932.
In a single paragraph at the end of its lengthy opinion, the
Court suggests that “nothing” in today's opinion prohibits
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 363

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

universities from considering a student's essay that explains
“how race affected [that student's] life.” Ante, at 230. This
supposed recognition that universities can, in some situa-
tions, consider race in application essays is nothing but an
attempt to put lipstick on a pig. The Court's opinion circum-
scribes universities' ability to consider race in any form by
meticulously gutting respondents' asserted diversity inter-
ests. See supra, at 357–358. Yet, because the Court cannot
escape the inevitable truth that race matters in students'
lives, it announces a false promise to save face and appear
attuned to reality. No one is fooled.
Further, the Court's demand that a student's discussion of
racial self-identifcation be tied to individual qualities, such
as “courage,” “leadership,” “unique ability,” and “determina-
tion,” only serves to perpetuate the false narrative that Har-
vard and UNC currently provide “preferences on the basis
of race alone.” Ante, at 220, 231; see also ante, at 219, n. 6
Page Proof Pending Publication
(claiming without support that “race alone . . . explains the
admissions decisions for hundreds if not thousands of appli-
cants”). The Court's precedents already require that uni-
versities take race into account holistically, in a limited way,
and based on the type of “individualized” and “fexible” as-
sessment that the Court purports to favor. Grutter, 539
U. S., at 334; see Brief for Students and Alumni of Harvard
College as Amici Curiae 15–17 (Harvard College Brief) (de-
scribing how the dozens of application fles in the record
“uniformly show that, in line with Harvard's `whole-person'
admissions philosophy, Harvard's admissions offcers engage
in a highly nuanced assessment of each applicant's back-
ground and qualifcations”). After extensive discovery and
two lengthy trials, neither SFFA nor the majority can point
to a single example of an underrepresented racial minority
who was admitted to Harvard or UNC on the basis of “race
alone.”
In the end, the Court merely imposes its preferred college
application format on the Nation, not acting as a court of law
364 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

applying precedent but taking on the role of college adminis-
trators to decide what is better for society. The Court's
course refects its inability to recognize that racial identity
informs some students' viewpoints and experiences in unique
ways. The Court goes as far as to claim that Bakke's recog-
nition that Black Americans can offer different perspectives
than white people amounts to a “stereotype.” Ante, at 220.
It is not a stereotype to acknowledge the basic truth that
young people's experiences are shaded by a societal struc-
ture where race matters. Acknowledging that there is
something special about a student of color who graduates
valedictorian from a predominantly white school is not a ste-
reotype. Nor is it a stereotype to acknowledge that race
imposes certain burdens on students of color that it does not
impose on white students. “For generations, black and
brown parents have given their children `the talk'—instruct-
ing them never to run down the street; always keep your
Page Proof Pending Publication
hands where they can be seen; do not even think of talking
back to a stranger—all out of fear of how an offcer with
a gun will react to them.” Utah v. Strieff, 579 U. S. 232,
254 (2016) (Sotomayor, J., dissenting). Those conversations
occur regardless of socioeconomic background or any other
aspect of a student's self-identifcation. They occur because
of race. As Andrew Brennen, a UNC alumnus, testifed,
“running down the neighborhood . . . people don't see [him]
as someone that is relatively affuent; they see [him] as a
black man.” 2 App. in No. 21–707, at 951–952.
The absence of racial diversity, by contrast, actually con-
tributes to stereotyping. “[D]iminishing the force of such
stereotypes is both a crucial part of [respondents'] mission,
and one that [they] cannot accomplish with only token num-
bers of minority students.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 333.
When there is an increase in underrepresented minority stu-
dents on campus, “racial stereotypes lose their force” be-
cause diversity allows students to “learn there is no `minor-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 365

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

ity viewpoint' but rather a variety of viewpoints among mi-
nority students.” Id., at 319–320. By preventing respond-
ents from achieving their diversity objectives, it is the
Court's opinion that facilitates stereotyping on American col-
lege campuses.
To be clear, today's decision leaves intact holistic college
admissions and recruitment efforts that seek to enroll di-
verse classes without using racial classifcations. Universi-
ties should continue to use those tools as best they can to
recruit and admit students from different backgrounds based
on all the other factors the Court's opinion does not, and
cannot, touch. Colleges and universities can continue to
consider socioeconomic diversity and to recruit and enroll
students who are frst-generation college applicants or who
speak multiple languages, for example. Those factors are
not “interchangeable” with race. UNC, 567 F. Supp. 3d, at
643; see, e. g., 2 App. in No. 21–707, at 975–976 (Laura Or-
Page Proof Pending Publication
nelas, a UNC alumna, testifying that her Latina identity, so-
cioeconomic status, and frst-generation college status are all
important but different “parts to getting a full picture” of
who she is and how she “see[s] the world”). At SFFA's own
urging, those efforts remain constitutionally permissible.
See Brief for Petitioner 81–86 (emphasizing “race-neutral”
alternatives that Harvard and UNC should implement, such
as those that focus on socioeconomic and geographic diver-
sity, percentage plans, plans that increase community college
transfers, and plans that develop partnerships with disad-
vantaged high schools); see also ante, at 280–281, 284
(Thomas, J., concurring) (arguing universities can consider
“[r]ace-neutral policies” similar to those adopted in States
such as California and Michigan, and that universities can
consider “status as a frst-generation college applicant,” “f-
nancial means,” and “generational inheritance or otherwise”);
ante, at 317 (Kavanaugh, J., concurring) (citing SFFA's
briefs and concluding that universities can use “race-neutral”
366 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

means); ante, at 300, n. 4 (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (“recount-
[ing] what SFFA has argued every step of the way” as to
“race-neutral tools”).
The Court today also does not adopt SFFA's suggestion
that college admissions should be a function of academic met-
rics alone. Using class rank or standardized test scores as
the only admissions criteria would severely undermine mul-
tidimensional diversity in higher education. Such a system
“would exclude the star athlete or musician whose grades
suffered because of daily practices and training. It would
exclude a talented young biologist who struggled to maintain
above-average grades in humanities classes. And it would
exclude a student whose freshman-year grades were poor
because of a family crisis but who got herself back on track
in her last three years of school, only to fnd herself just
outside of the top decile of her class.” Fisher II, 579 U. S.,
at 386. A myopic focus on academic ratings “does not lead
to a diverse student body.” Ibid.35
Page Proof Pending Publication
2
As noted above, this Court suggests that the use of race
in college admissions is unworkable because respondents' ob-
jectives are not suffciently “measurable,” “focused,” “con-
crete,” and “coherent.” Ante, at 214, 217, 230. How much
more precision is required or how universities are supposed
to meet the Court's measurability requirement, the Court's
opinion does not say. That is exactly the point. The Court
is not interested in crafting a workable framework that pro-
motes racial diversity on college campuses. Instead, it an-
nounces a requirement designed to ensure all race-conscious
35
Today's decision is likely to generate a plethora of litigation by disap-
pointed college applicants who think their credentials and personal quali-
ties should have secured them admission. By inviting those challenges,
the Court's opinion promotes chaos and incentivizes universities to convert
their admissions programs into infexible systems focused on mechanical
factors, which will harm all students.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 367

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

plans fail. Any increased level of precision runs the risk of
violating the Court's admonition that colleges and universi-
ties operate their race-conscious admissions policies with no
“ `specifed percentage[s]' ” and no “specifc number[s] frmly
in mind.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 324, 335. Thus, the majori-
ty's holding puts schools in an untenable position. It creates
a legal framework where race-conscious plans must be meas-
ured with precision but also must not be measured with pre-
cision. That holding is not meant to infuse clarity into the
strict scrutiny framework; it is designed to render strict
scrutiny “ `fatal in fact.' ” Id., at 326 (quoting Adarand Con-
structors, Inc., 515 U. S., at 237). Indeed, the Court gives
the game away when it holds that, to the extent respondents
are actually measuring their diversity objectives with any
level of specifcity (for example, with a “focus on numbers”
or specifc “numerical commitment”), their plans are uncon-
stitutional. Ante, at 222; see also ante, at 258 (Thomas, J.,
concurring) (“I highly doubt any [university] will be able to”
Page Proof Pending Publication
show a “measurable state interest”).

3
The Court also holds that Harvard's and UNC's race-
conscious programs are unconstitutional because they rely
on racial categories that are “imprecise,” “opaque,” and “ar-
bitrary.” Ante, at 216–217. To start, the racial categories
that the Court fnds troubling resemble those used across the
Federal Government for data collection, compliance report-
ing, and program administration purposes, including, for ex-
ample, by the U. S. Census Bureau. See, e. g., 62 Fed. Reg.
58786–58790 (1997). Surely, not all “ `federal grant-in-aid
benefts, drafting of legislation, urban and regional planning,
business planning, and academic and social studies' ” that fow
from census data collection, Department of Commerce v. New
York, 588 U. S. –––, ––– (2019), are constitutionally suspect.
The majority presumes that it knows better and appoints
itself as an expert on data collection methods, calling for a
368 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

higher level of granularity to fx a supposed problem of over-
inclusiveness and underinclusiveness. Yet it does not iden-
tify a single instance where respondents' methodology has
prevented any student from reporting their race with the
level of detail they preferred. The record shows that it is
up to students to choose whether to identify as one, multiple,
or none of these categories. See Harvard I, 397 F. Supp.
3d, at 137; UNC, 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 596. To the extent
students need to convey additional information, students can
select subcategories or provide more detail in their personal
statements or essays. See Harvard I, 397 F. Supp. 3d, at
137. Students often do so. See, e. g., 2 App. in No. 20–1199,
at 906–907 (student respondent discussing her Latina iden-
tity on her application); id., at 949 (student respondent testi-
fying he “wrote about [his] Vietnamese identity on [his] ap-
plication”). Notwithstanding this Court's confusion about
racial self-identifcation, neither students nor universities are
confused. There is no evidence that the racial categories
Page Proof Pending Publication
that respondents use are unworkable.36

4
Cherry-picking language from Grutter, the Court also
holds that Harvard's and UNC's race-conscious programs are
unconstitutional because they do not have a specifc expira-
tion date. Ante, at 221–225. This new durational require-
ment is also not grounded in law, facts, or common sense.
36
The Court suggests that the term “Asian American” was developed by
respondents because they are “uninterested” in whether Asian American
students “are adequately represented.” Ante, at 216; see also ante, at
291 (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (suggesting that “[b]ureaucrats” devised a
system that grouped all Asian Americans into a single racial category).
That argument offends the history of that term. “The term `Asian Ameri-
can' was coined in the late 1960s by Asian American activists—mostly
college students—to unify Asian ethnic groups that shared common expe-
riences of race-based violence and discrimination and to advocate for civil
rights and visibility.” Brief for Asian American Legal Defense and Edu-
cation Fund et al. as Amici Curiae 9 (AALDEF Brief).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 369

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Grutter simply announced a general “expect[ation]” that
“the use of racial preferences [would] no longer be neces-
sary” in the future. 539 U. S., at 343. As even SFFA ac-
knowledges, those remarks were nothing but aspirational
statements by the Grutter Court. Tr. of Oral Arg. in No.
21–707, p. 56.
Yet this Court suggests that everyone, including the Court
itself, has been misreading Grutter for 20 years. Grutter,
according to the majority, requires that universities identify
a specifc “end point” for the use of race. Ante, at 225.
Justice Kavanaugh, for his part, suggests that Grutter it-
self automatically expires in 25 years, after either “the col-
lege class of 2028” or “the college class of 2032.” Ante, at
316, n. *. A faithful reading of this Court's precedents re-
veals that Grutter held nothing of the sort.
True, Grutter referred to “25 years,” but that arbitrary
number simply refected the time that had elapsed since the
Page Proof Pending Publication
Court “frst approved the use of race” in college admissions
in Bakke. Grutter, 539 U. S., at 343. It is also true that
Grutter remarked that “race-conscious admissions policies
must be limited in time,” but it did not do so in a vacuum,
as the Court suggests. Id., at 342. Rather than impose a
fxed expiration date, the Court tasked universities with the
responsibility of periodically assessing whether their race-
conscious programs “are still necessary.” Ibid. Grutter of-
fered as examples sunset provisions, periodic reviews, and
experimenting with “race-neutral alternatives as they de-
velop.” Ibid. That is precisely how this Court has pre-
viously interpreted Grutter's command. See Fisher II, 579
U. S., at 388 (“It is the University's ongoing obligation to
engage in constant deliberation and continued refection re-
garding its admissions policies”).
Grutter's requirement that universities engage in periodic
reviews so the use of race can end “as soon as practicable”
is well grounded in the need to ensure that race is “employed
no more broadly than the interest demands.” 539 U. S., at
370 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

343. That is, it is grounded in strict scrutiny. By contrast,
the Court's holding is based on the fction that racial inequal-
ity has a predictable cutoff date. Equality is an ongoing
project in a society where racial inequality persists. See
supra, at 333–341. A temporal requirement that rests on
the fantasy that racial inequality will end at a predictable
hour is illogical and unworkable. There is a sound reason
why this Court's precedents have never imposed the majori-
ty's strict deadline: Institutions cannot predict the future.
Speculating about a day when consideration of race will be-
come unnecessary is arbitrary at best and frivolous at worst.
There is no constitutional duty to engage in that type of shal-
low guesswork.37
Harvard and UNC engage in the ongoing review that the
Court's precedents demand. They “use [their] data to scru-
tinize the fairness of [their] admissions program[s]; to assess
whether changing demographics have undermined the need
for a race-conscious policy; and to identify the effects, both
Page Proof Pending Publication
positive and negative, of the affrmative-action measures
[they] dee[m] necessary.” Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 388. The
Court holds, however, that respondents' attention to num-
bers amounts to unconstitutional racial balancing. Ante, at
221–223. But “ `[s]ome attention to numbers' ” is both neces-
sary and permissible. Grutter, 539 U. S., at 336 (quoting

37
Justice Kavanaugh's reading, in particular, is quite puzzling. Un-
like the majority, which concludes that respondents' programs should have
an end point, Justice Kavanaugh suggests that Grutter itself has an
expiration date. He agrees that racial inequality persists, ante, at 317,
but at the same time suggests that race-conscious affrmative action was
only necessary in “another generation,” ante, at 313. He attempts to analo-
gize expiration dates of court-ordered injunctions in desegregation cases,
ante, at 314, but an expiring injunction does not eliminate the underlying
constitutional principle. His musings about different college classes, ante,
at 316, n. *, are also entirely beside the point. Nothing in Grutter's analy-
sis turned on whether someone was applying for the class of 2028 or 2032.
That reading of Grutter trivializes the Court's precedent by reducing it to
an exercise in managing academic calendars. Grutter is no such thing.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 371

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

Bakke, 438 U. S., at 323). Universities cannot blindly oper-
ate their limited race-conscious programs without regard for
any quantitative information. “Increasing minority enroll-
ment [is] instrumental to th[e] educational benefts” that re-
spondents seek to achieve, Fisher II, 579 U. S., at 381, and
statistics, data, and numbers “have some value as a gauge of
[respondents'] ability to enroll students who can offer under-
represented perspectives.” Id., at 383–384. By removing
universities' ability to assess the success of their programs,
the Court obstructs these institutions' ability to meet their
diversity goals.
5
Justice Thomas, for his part, offers a multitude of argu-
ments for why race-conscious college admissions policies sup-
posedly “burden” racial minorities. Ante, at 268. None of
them has any merit.
He frst renews his argument that the use of race in holis-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tic admissions leads to the “inevitable” “underperformance”
by Black and Latino students at elite universities “because
they are less academically prepared than the white and
Asian students with whom they must compete.” Fisher I,
570 U. S., at 332 (concurring opinion). Justice Thomas
speaks only for himself. The Court previously declined to
adopt this so-called “mismatch” hypothesis for good reason:
It was debunked long ago. The decades-old “studies” ad-
vanced by the handful of authors upon whom Justice
Thomas relies, ante, at 269–270, have “major methodological
faws,” are based on unreliable data, and do not “meet the
basic tenets of rigorous social science research.” Brief for
Empirical Scholars as Amici Curiae 3, 9–25. By contrast,
“[m]any social scientists have studied the impact of elite edu-
cational institutions on student outcomes, and have found,
among other things, that attending a more selective school
is associated with higher graduation rates and higher earn-
ings for [underrepresented minority] students—conclusions
directly contrary to mismatch.” Id., at 7–9 (collecting stud-
372 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

ies). This extensive body of research is supported by the
most obvious data point available to this institution today:
The three Justices of color on this Court graduated from elite
universities and law schools with race-conscious admissions
programs, and achieved successful legal careers, despite hav-
ing different educational backgrounds than their peers. A
discredited hypothesis that the Court previously rejected is
no reason to overrule precedent.
Justice Thomas claims that the weight of this evidence
is overcome by a single more recent article published in
2016. Ante, at 270, n. 8. That article, however, explains
that studies supporting the mismatch hypothesis “yield
misleading conclusions,” “overstate the amount of mis-
match,” “preclude one from drawing any concrete conclu-
sions,” and rely on methodologically fawed assumptions
that “lea[d] to an upwardly-biased estimate of mismatch.”
P. Arcidiacono & M. Lovenheim, Affrmative Action and the
Page Proof Pending Publication
Quality-Fit Trade-off, 54 J. Econ. Lit. 3, 17, 20 (2016). Nota-
bly, this refutation of the mismatch theory was coauthored
by one of SFFA's experts, as Justice Thomas seems to
recognize.
Citing nothing but his own long-held belief, Justice
Thomas also equates affrmative action in higher education
with segregation, arguing that “racial preferences in college
admissions `stamp [Black and Latino students] with a badge
of inferiority.' ” Ante, at 270 (quoting Adarand, 515 U. S.,
at 241 (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in
judgment)). Studies disprove this sentiment, which echoes
“tropes of stigma” that “were employed to oppose Recon-
struction policies.” A. Onwuachi-Willig, E. Houh, & M.
Campbell, Cracking the Egg: Which Came First—Stigma or
Affrmative Action? 96 Cal. L. Rev. 1299, 1323 (2008); see,
e. g., id., at 1343–1344 (study of seven law schools showing
that stigma results from “racial stereotypes that have
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 373

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

attached historically to different groups, regardless of af-
firmative action's existence”). Indeed, equating state-
sponsored segregation with race-conscious admissions poli-
cies that promote racial integration trivializes the harms of
segregation and offends Brown's transformative legacy.
School segregation “has a detrimental effect” on Black stu-
dents by “denoting the inferiority” of “their status in the
community” and by “ `depriv[ing] them of some of the bene-
fts they would receive in a racial[ly] integrated school sys-
tem.' ” 347 U. S., at 494. In sharp contrast, race-conscious
college admissions ensure that higher education is “visibly
open to” and “inclusive of talented and qualifed individuals
of every race and ethnicity.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 332.
These two uses of race are not created equal. They are not
“equally objectionable.” Id., at 327.
Relatedly, Justice Thomas suggests that race-conscious
college admissions policies harm racial minorities by increas-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ing affnity-based activities on college campuses. Ante, at
274–275. Not only is there no evidence of a causal connection
between the use of race in college admissions and the sup-
posed rise of those activities, but Justice Thomas points to
no evidence that affnity groups cause any harm. Affnity-
based activities actually help racial minorities improve their
visibility on college campuses and “decreas[e] racial stigma
and vulnerability to stereotypes” caused by “conditions of
racial isolation” and “tokenization.” U. Jayakumar, Why
Are All Black Students Still Sitting Together in the Prover-
bial College Cafeteria?, Higher Education Research Institute
at UCLA (Oct. 2015); see also Brief for Respondent-Students
in No. 21–707, p. 42 (collecting student testimony demonstrat-
ing that “affnity groups beget important academic and social
benefts” for racial minorities); 4 App. in No. 20–1199, at 1591
(Harvard Working Group on Diversity and Inclusion Report)
(noting that concerns “that culturally specifc spaces or
affnity-themed housing will isolate” student minorities are
374 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

misguided because those spaces allow students “to come to-
gether . . . to deal with intellectual, emotional, and social
challenges”).
Citing no evidence, Justice Thomas also suggests that
race-conscious admissions programs discriminate against
Asian American students. Ante, at 272–273. It is true that
SFFA “allege[d]” that Harvard discriminates against Asian
American students. Ante, at 272. Specifcally, SFFA ar-
gued that Harvard discriminates against Asian American ap-
plicants vis-à-vis white applicants through the use of the per-
sonal rating, an allegedly “highly subjective” component of
the admissions process that is “susceptible to stereotyping
and bias.” Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at 196; see Brief for Pro-
fessors of Economics as Amici Curiae 24. It is also true,
however, that there was a lengthy trial to test those allega-
tions, which SFFA lost. Justice Thomas points to no legal
or factual error below, precisely because there is none.
To begin, this part of SFFA's discrimination claim does not
Page Proof Pending Publication
even fall under the strict scrutiny framework in Grutter and
its progeny, which concerns the use of racial classifcations.
The personal rating is a facially race-neutral component of
Harvard's admissions policy.38 Therefore, even assuming for
the sake of argument that Harvard engages in racial discrim-
ination through the personal rating, there is no connection
between that rating and the remedy that SFFA sought and
that the majority grants today: ending the limited use of race
in the entire admissions process. In any event, after assess-
ing the credibility of fact witnesses and considering exten-
sive documentary evidence and expert testimony, the courts
below found “no discrimination against Asian Americans.”
Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at 195, n. 34, 202; see id., at 195–204.

38
Before 2018, Harvard's admissions procedures were silent on the use
of race in connection with the personal rating. Harvard II, 980 F. 3d, at
169. Harvard later modifed its instructions to say explicitly that “ `an
applicant's race or ethnicity should not be considered in assigning the per-
sonal rating.' ” Ibid.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 375

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

There is no question that the Asian American community
continues to struggle against potent and dehumanizing ste-
reotypes in our society. It is precisely because racial dis-
crimination persists in our society, however, that the use of
race in college admissions to achieve racially diverse classes
is critical to improving cross-racial understanding and break-
ing down racial stereotypes. See supra, at 332. Indeed,
the record shows that some Asian American applicants are
actually “advantaged by Harvard's use of race,” Harvard II,
980 F. 3d, at 191, and “eliminating consideration of race
would signifcantly disadvantage at least some Asian Ameri-
can applicants,” Harvard I, 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 194. Race-
conscious holistic admissions that contextualize the racial
identity of each individual allow Asian American applicants
“who would be less likely to be admitted without a compre-
hensive understanding of their background” to explain “the
value of their unique background, heritage, and perspective.”
Id., at 195. Because the Asian American community is not
Page Proof Pending Publication
a monolith, race-conscious holistic admissions allow colleges
and universities to “consider the vast differences within
[that] community.” AALDEF Brief 4–14. Harvard's appli-
cation fles show that race-conscious holistic admissions allow
Harvard to “valu[e] the diversity of Asian American appli-
cants' experiences.” Harvard College Brief 23.
Moreover, the admission rates of Asian Americans at insti-
tutions with race-conscious admissions policies, including at
Harvard, have “been steadily increasing for decades.” Har-
vard II, 980 F. 3d, at 198.39 By contrast, Asian American
enrollment declined at elite universities that are prohibited
by state law from considering race. See AALDEF Brief 27;
Brief for 25 Diverse, California-Focused Bar Associations
et al. as Amici Curiae 19–20, 23. At bottom, race-conscious
39
At Harvard, “Asian American applicants are accepted at the same rate
as other applicants and now make up more than 20% of Harvard's admitted
classes,” even though “only about 6% of the United States population is
Asian American.” Harvard I, 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 203.
376 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

admissions beneft all students, including racial minorities.
That includes the Asian American community.
Finally, Justice Thomas belies reality by suggesting that
“experts and elites” with views similar to those “that moti-
vated Dred Scott and Plessy” are the ones who support race
conscious admissions. Ante, at 268. The plethora of young
students of color who testifed in favor of race-consciousness
proves otherwise. See supra, at 362; see also infra, at 379–
382 (discussing numerous amici from many sectors of society
supporting respondents' policies). Not a single student—
let alone any racial minority—affected by the Court's deci-
sion testifed in favor of SFFA in these cases.

C
In its “radical claim to power,” the Court does not even
acknowledge the important reliance interests that this
Court's precedents have generated. Dobbs, 597 U. S., at –––
Page Proof Pending Publication
(dissenting opinion). Significant rights and expectations
will be affected by today's decision nonetheless. Those in-
terests supply “added force” in favor of stare decisis. Hil-
ton v. South Carolina Public Railways Comm'n, 502 U. S.
197, 202 (1991).
Students of all backgrounds have formed settled expecta-
tions that universities with race-conscious policies “will pro-
vide diverse, cross-cultural experiences that will better pre-
pare them to excel in our increasingly diverse world.” Brief
for Respondent-Students in No. 21–707, at 45; see Harvard
College Brief 6–11 (collecting student testimony).
Respondents and other colleges and universities with race-
conscious admissions programs similarly have concrete reli-
ance interests because they have spent signifcant resources
in an effort to comply with this Court's precedents. “Uni-
versities have designed courses that draw on the benefts
of a diverse student body,” “hired faculty whose research is
enriched by the diversity of the student body,” and “pro-
moted their learning environments to prospective students
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 377

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

who have enrolled based on the understanding that they
could obtain the benefts of diversity of all kinds.” Brief for
Respondent in No. 20–1199, at 40–41 (internal quotation
marks omitted). Universities also have “expended vast f-
nancial and other resources” in “training thousands of appli-
cation readers on how to faithfully apply this Court's guard-
rails on the use of race in admissions.” Brief for University
Respondents in No. 21–707, at 44. Yet today's decision
abruptly forces them “to fundamentally alter their admis-
sions practices.” Id., at 45; see also Brief for Massachusetts
Institute of Technology et al. as Amici Curiae 25–26; Brief
for Amherst College et al. as Amici Curiae 23–25 (Amherst
Brief). As to Title VI in particular, colleges and universi-
ties have relied on Grutter for decades in accepting federal
funds. See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in No.
20–1199, p. 25 (United States Brief); Georgetown Brief 16.
The Court's failure to weigh these reliance interests “is a
stunning indictment of its decision.” Dobbs, 597 U. S., at –––
Page Proof Pending Publication
(dissenting opinion).
IV
The use of race in college admissions has had profound
consequences by increasing the enrollment of underrepre-
sented minorities on college campuses. This Court presup-
poses that segregation is a sin of the past and that race-
conscious college admissions have played no role in the prog-
ress society has made. The fact that affrmative action in
higher education “has worked and is continuing to work” is
no reason to abandon the practice today. Shelby County v.
Holder, 570 U. S. 529, 590 (2013) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting)
(“[It] is like throwing away your umbrella in a rainstorm
because you are not getting wet”).
Experience teaches that the consequences of today's deci-
sion will be destructive. The two lengthy trials below sim-
ply confrmed what we already knew: Superfcial colorblind-
ness in a society that systematically segregates opportunity
will cause a sharp decline in the rates at which underrepre-
378 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

sented minority students enroll in our Nation's colleges and
universities, turning the clock back and undoing the slow yet
signifcant progress already achieved. See Schuette, 572
U. S., at 384–390 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (collecting sta-
tistics from States that have banned the use of race in college
admissions); see also Amherst Brief 13 (noting that elimi-
nating the use of race in college admissions will take Black
student enrollment at elite universities back to levels this
country saw in the early 1960s).
After California amended its State Constitution to pro-
hibit race-conscious college admissions in 1996, for example,
“freshmen enrollees from underrepresented minority groups
dropped precipitously” in California public universities.
Brief for President and Chancellors of the University of Cali-
fornia as Amici Curiae 4, 9, 11–13. The decline was particu-
larly devastating at California's most selective campuses,
where the rates of admission of underrepresented groups
Page Proof Pending Publication
“dropped by 50% or more.” Id., at 4, 12. At the University
of California, Berkeley, a top public university not just in
California but also nationally, the percentage of Black stu-
dents in the freshman class dropped from 6.32% in 1995 to
3.37% in 1998. Id., at 12–13. Latino representation simi-
larly dropped from 15.57% to 7.28% during that period at
Berkeley, even though Latinos represented 31% of California
public high school graduates. Id., at 13. To this day, the
student population at California universities still “refect[s] a
persistent inability to increase opportunities” for all racial
groups. Id., at 23. For example, as of 2019, the proportion
of Black freshmen at Berkeley was 2.76%, well below the
preconstitutional amendment level in 1996, which was
6.32%. Ibid. Latinos composed about 15% of freshmen
students at Berkeley in 2019, despite making up 52% of all
California public high school graduates. Id., at 24; see also
Brief for University of Michigan as Amicus Curiae 21–24
(noting similar trends at the University of Michigan from
2006, the last admissions cycle before Michigan's ban on race-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 379

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

conscious admissions took effect, through present); id., at 24–
25 (explaining that the university's “experience is largely
consistent with other schools that do not consider race as a
factor in admissions,” including, for example, the University
of Oklahoma's most prestigious campus).
The costly result of today's decision harms not just re-
spondents and students but also our institutions and demo-
cratic society more broadly. Dozens of amici from nearly
every sector of society agree that the absence of race-
conscious college admissions will decrease the pipeline of
racially diverse college graduates to crucial professions.
Those amici include the United States, which emphasizes the
need for diversity in the Nation's military, see United States
Brief 12–18, and in the federal workforce more generally, id.,
at 19–20 (discussing various federal agencies, including the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Offce of the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence). The United States explains
Page Proof Pending Publication
that “the Nation's military strength and readiness depend
on a pipeline of offcers who are both highly qualifed and
racially diverse—and who have been educated in diverse en-
vironments that prepare them to lead increasingly diverse
forces.” Id., at 12. That is true not just at the military
service academies but “at civilian universities, including Har-
vard, that host Reserve Offcers' Training Corps (ROTC)
programs and educate students who go on to become off-
cers.” Ibid. Top former military leaders agree. See Brief
for Adm. Charles S. Abbot et al. as Amici Curiae 3 (noting
that in amici's “professional judgment, the status quo—
which permits service academies and civilian universities to
consider racial diversity as one factor among many in their
admissions practices—is essential to the continued vitality of
the U. S. military”).
Indeed, history teaches that racial diversity is a national
security imperative. During the Vietnam War, for example,
lack of racial diversity “threatened the integrity and per-
formance of the Nation's military” because it fueled “percep-
380 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

tions of racial/ethnic minorities serving as `cannon fodder'
for white military leaders.” Military Leadership Diversity
Comm'n, From Representation to Inclusion: Diversity Lead-
ership for the 21st-Century Military xvi, 15 (2011); see also,
e. g., R. Stillman, Racial Unrest in the Military: The Chal-
lenge and the Response, 34 Pub. Admin. Rev. 221, 221–222
(1974) (discussing other examples of racial unrest). Based
on “lessons from decades of battlefeld experience,” it has
been the “longstanding military judgment” across adminis-
trations that racial diversity “is essential to achieving a
mission-ready” military and to ensuring the Nation's “ability
to compete, deter, and win in today's increasingly complex
global security environment.” United States Brief 13 (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted). The majority recognizes
the compelling need for diversity in the military and the na-
tional security implications at stake, see ante, at 213, n. 4,
but it ends race-conscious college admissions at civilian uni-
Page Proof Pending Publication
versities implicating those interests anyway.
Amici also tell the Court that race-conscious college ad-
missions are critical for providing equitable and effective
public services. State and local governments require public
servants educated in diverse environments who can “iden-
tify, understand, and respond to perspectives” in “our in-
creasingly diverse communities.” Brief for Southern Gov-
ernors as Amici Curiae 5–8 (Southern Governors Brief).
Likewise, increasing the number of students from underrep-
resented backgrounds who join “the ranks of medical profes-
sionals” improves “healthcare access and health outcomes in
medically underserved communities.” Brief for Massachu-
setts et al. as Amici Curiae 10; see Brief for Association of
American Medical Colleges et al. as Amici Curiae 5 (noting
also that all physicians become better practitioners when
they learn in a racially diverse environment). So too,
greater diversity within the teacher workforce improves stu-
dent academic achievement in primary public schools. Brief
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 381

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

for Massachusetts et al. as Amici Curiae 15–17; see Brief
for American Federation of Teachers as Amicus Curiae 8
(“[T]here are few professions with broader social impact
than teaching”). A diverse pipeline of college graduates
also ensures a diverse legal profession, which demonstrates
that “the justice system serves the public in a fair and inclu-
sive manner.” Brief for American Bar Association as Ami-
cus Curiae 18; see also Brief for Law Firm Antiracism Alli-
ance as Amicus Curiae 1, 6 (more than 300 law frms in all
50 States supporting race-conscious college admissions in
light of the “infuence and power” that lawyers wield “in the
American system of government”).
Examples of other industries and professions that beneft
from race-conscious college admissions abound. American
businesses emphasize that a diverse workforce improves
business performance, better serves a diverse consumer
marketplace, and strengthens the overall American economy.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Brief for Major American Business Enterprises as Amici
Curiae 5–27. A diverse pipeline of college graduates also
improves research by reducing bias and increasing group col-
laboration. Brief for Individual Scientists as Amici Curiae
13–14. It creates a more equitable and inclusive media in-
dustry that communicates diverse viewpoints and perspec-
tives. Brief for Multicultural Media, Telecom and Internet
Council, Inc., et al. as Amici Curiae 6. It also drives inno-
vation in an increasingly global science and technology in-
dustry. Brief for Applied Materials, Inc., et al. as Amici
Curiae 11–20.
Today's decision further entrenches racial inequality by
making these pipelines to leadership roles less diverse. A
college degree, particularly from an elite institution, carries
with it the beneft of powerful networks and the opportunity
for socioeconomic mobility. Admission to college is there-
fore often the entry ticket to top jobs in workplaces where
important decisions are made. The overwhelming majority
382 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Sotomayor, J., dissenting

of Members of Congress have a college degree.40 So do most
business leaders.41 Indeed, many state and local leaders in
North Carolina attended college in the UNC system. See
Southern Governors Brief 8. More than half of judges on
the North Carolina Supreme Court and Court of Appeals
graduated from the UNC system, for example, and nearly a
third of the Governor's cabinet attended UNC. Ibid. A
less diverse pipeline to these top jobs accumulates wealth
and power unequally across racial lines, exacerbating racial
disparities in a society that already dispenses prestige and
privilege based on race.
The Court ignores the dangerous consequences of an
America where its leadership does not refect the diversity
of the People. A system of government that visibly lacks a
path to leadership open to every race cannot withstand scru-
tiny “in the eyes of the citizenry.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 332.
“[G]ross disparity in representation” leads the public to won-
der whether they can ever belong in our Nation's institu-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tions, including this one, and whether those institutions work
for them. Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 21–707, at 171 (“The Court
is going to hear from 27 advocates in this sitting of the oral
argument calendar, and two are women, even though women
today are 50 percent or more of law school graduates. And
I think it would be reasonable for a woman to look at that
and wonder, is that a path that's open to me, to be a Supreme
Court advocate?” (remarks of Solicitor General Elizabeth
Prelogar)).42
40
K. Schaeffer, Pew Research Center, The Changing Face of Congress
in 8 Charts (Feb. 7, 2023).
41
See J. Martelli & P. Abels, The Education of a Leader: Educational
Credentials and Other Characteristics of Chief Executive Offcers, J. Educ.
for Bus. 216 (2010); see also J. Moody, Where the Top Fortune 500 CEOs
Attended College, U. S. News & World Report (June 16, 2021).
42
Racial inequality in the pipeline to this institution, too, will deepen.
See J. Fogel, M. Hoopes, & G. Liu, Law Clerk Selection and Diversity:
Insights From Fifty Sitting Judges of the Federal Courts of Appeals 7–8
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 383

Sotomayor, J., dissenting

By ending race-conscious college admissions, this Court
closes the door of opportunity that the Court's precedents
helped open to young students of every race. It creates a
leadership pipeline that is less diverse than our increasingly
diverse society, reserving “positions of infuence, affuence,
and prestige in America” for a predominantly white pool of
college graduates. Bakke, 438 U. S., at 401 (opinion of Mar-
shall, J.). At its core, today's decision exacerbates segrega-
tion and diminishes the inclusivity of our Nation's institu-
tions in service of superfcial neutrality that promotes
indifference to inequality and ignores the reality of race.

* * *
True equality of educational opportunity in racially di-
verse schools is an essential component of the fabric of our
democratic society. It is an interest of the highest order
and a foundational requirement for the promotion of equal
protection under the law. Brown recognized that passive
Page Proof Pending Publication
race neutrality was inadequate to achieve the constitutional
guarantee of racial equality in a Nation where the effects of
segregation persist. In a society where race continues to
matter, there is no constitutional requirement that institu-
tions attempting to remedy their legacies of racial exclusion
must operate with a blindfold.
Today, this Court overrules decades of precedent and im-
poses a superfcial rule of race blindness on the Nation. The
devastating impact of this decision cannot be overstated.
The majority's vision of race neutrality will entrench racial
(2022) (noting that from 2005 to 2017, 85% of Supreme Court law clerks
were white, 9% were Asian American, 4% were Black, and 1.5% were
Latino, and about half of all clerks during that period graduated from two
law schools: Harvard and Yale); Brief for American Bar Association as
Amicus Curiae 25 (noting that more than 85% of lawyers, more than 70%
of Article III judges, and more than 80% of state judges in the United
States are white, even though white people represent about 60% of the
population).
384 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

segregation in higher education because racial inequality will
persist so long as it is ignored.
Notwithstanding this Court's actions, however, society's
progress toward equality cannot be permanently halted.
Diversity is now a fundamental American value, housed in
our varied and multicultural American community that only
continues to grow. The pursuit of racial diversity will go
on. Although the Court has stripped out almost all uses of
race in college admissions, universities can and should con-
tinue to use all available tools to meet society's needs for
diversity in education. Despite the Court's unjustifed exer-
cise of power, the opinion today will serve only to highlight
the Court's own impotence in the face of an America whose
cries for equality resound. As has been the case before in
the history of American democracy, “the arc of the moral
universe” will bend toward racial justice despite the Court's
efforts today to impede its progress. Martin Luther King
“Our God is Marching On!” Speech (Mar. 25, 1965).
Page Proof Pending Publication
Justice Jackson, with whom Justice Sotomayor and
Justice Kagan join, dissenting.*
Gulf-sized race-based gaps exist with respect to the health,
wealth, and well-being of American citizens. They were
created in the distant past, but have indisputably been
passed down to the present day through the generations.
Every moment these gaps persist is a moment in which this
great country falls short of actualizing one of its foundational
principles—the “self-evident” truth that all of us are created
equal. Yet, today, the Court determines that holistic admis-
sions programs like the one that the University of North
Carolina (UNC) has operated, consistent with Grutter v. Bol-
linger, 539 U. S. 306 (2003), are a problem with respect to
achievement of that aspiration, rather than a viable solution

*Justice Jackson did not participate in the consideration or decision
of the case in No. 20–1199, and issues this opinion with respect to the case
in No. 21–707.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 385

Jackson, J., dissenting

(as has long been evident to historians, sociologists, and poli-
cymakers alike).
Justice Sotomayor has persuasively established that
nothing in the Constitution or Title VI prohibits institutions
from taking race into account to ensure the racial diversity
of admits in higher education. I join her opinion without
qualifcation. I write separately to expound upon the uni-
versal benefts of considering race in this context, in re-
sponse to a suggestion that has permeated this legal action
from the start. Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA) has
maintained, both subtly and overtly, that it is unfair for a
college's admissions process to consider race as one factor
in a holistic review of its applicants. See, e. g., Tr. of Oral
Arg. 19.
This contention blinks both history and reality in ways too
numerous to count. But the response is simple: Our country
has never been colorblind. Given the lengthy history of
state-sponsored race-based preferences in America, to say
Page Proof Pending Publication
that anyone is now victimized if a college considers whether
that legacy of discrimination has unequally advantaged its
applicants fails to acknowledge the well-documented “inter-
generational transmission of inequality” that still plagues
our citizenry.1
It is that inequality that admissions programs such as
UNC's help to address, to the beneft of us all. Because the
majority's judgment stunts that progress without any basis
in law, history, logic, or justice, I dissent.

I
A
Imagine two college applicants from North Carolina, John
and James. Both trace their family's North Carolina roots
to the year of UNC's founding in 1789. Both love their
1
M. Oliver & T. Shapiro, Black Wealth/White Wealth: A New Perspec-
tive on Racial Inequality 128 (1997) (Oliver & Shapiro) (emphasis deleted).
386 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

State and want great things for its people. Both want to
honor their family's legacy by attending the State's fagship
educational institution. John, however, would be the sev-
enth generation to graduate from UNC. He is White.
James would be the frst; he is Black. Does the race of these
applicants properly play a role in UNC's holistic merits-
based admissions process?
To answer that question, “a page of history is worth a vol-
ume of logic.” New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345,
349 (1921). Many chapters of America's history appear nec-
essary, given the opinions that my colleagues in the majority
have issued in this case.
Justice Thurgood Marshall recounted the genesis:
“Three hundred and ffty years ago, the Negro was
dragged to this country in chains to be sold into slavery.
Uprooted from his homeland and thrust into bondage for
forced labor, the slave was deprived of all legal rights.
Page Proof Pending Publication
It was unlawful to teach him to read; he could be sold
away from his family and friends at the whim of his mas-
ter; and killing or maiming him was not a crime. The
system of slavery brutalized and dehumanized both mas-
ter and slave.” Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438
U. S. 265, 387–388 (1978).
Slavery should have been (and was to many) self-evidently
dissonant with our avowed founding principles. When the
time came to resolve that dissonance, eleven States chose
slavery. With the Union's survival at stake, Frederick
Douglass noted, Black Americans in the South “were almost
the only reliable friends the nation had,” and “but for their
help . . . the Rebels might have succeeded in breaking up the
Union.” 2 After the war, Senator John Sherman defended
the proposed Fourteenth Amendment in a manner that en-
2
An Appeal to Congress for Impartial Suffrage, Atlantic Monthly (Jan.
1867), in 2 The Reconstruction Amendments: The Essential Documents
324 (K. Lash ed. 2021) (Lash).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 387

Jackson, J., dissenting

capsulated our Reconstruction Framers' highest sentiments:
“We are bound by every obligation, by [Black Americans']
service on the battlefeld, by their heroes who are buried in our
cause, by their patriotism in the hours that tried our country,
we are bound to protect them and all their natural rights.” 3
To uphold that promise, the Framers repudiated this
Court's holding in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393
(1857), by crafting Reconstruction Amendments (and associ-
ated legislation) that transformed our Constitution and soci-
ety.4 Even after this Second Founding—when the need to
right historical wrongs should have been clear beyond
cavil—opponents insisted that vindicating equality in this
manner slighted White Americans. So, when the Recon-
struction Congress passed a bill to secure all citizens “the
same [civil] right[s]” as “enjoyed by white citizens,” 14 Stat.
27, President Andrew Johnson vetoed it because it “discrimi-
nat[ed] . . . in favor of the negro.” 5
That attitude, and the Nation's associated retreat from Re-
Page Proof Pending Publication
construction, made prophecy out of Congressman Thaddeus
Stevens's fear that “those States will all . . . keep up this
discrimination, and crush to death the hated freedmen.” 6
And this Court facilitated that retrenchment.7 Not just in
Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537 (1896), but “in almost every
instance, the Court chose to restrict the scope of the second
founding.” 8 Thus, thirteen years pre-Plessy, in the Civil
Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3 (1883), our predecessors on this

3
Speech of Sen. John Sherman (Sept. 28, 1866) (Sherman), in id., at 276;
see also W. E. B. Du Bois, Black Reconstruction in America 162 (1998)
(Du Bois).
4
See Sherman 276; M. Curtis, No State Shall Abridge: The Fourteenth
Amendment and the Bill of Rights 48, 71–75, 91, 173 (1986).
5
Message Accompanying Veto of the Civil Rights Bill (Mar. 27, 1866), in
Lash 145.
6
Speech Introducing the [Fourteenth] Amendment (May 8, 1866), in id.,
at 159; see Du Bois 670–710.
7
E. Foner, The Second Founding 125–167 (2019) (Foner).
8
Id., at 128.
388 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

Court invalidated Congress's attempt to enforce the Recon-
struction Amendments via the Civil Rights Act of 1875, lec-
turing that “there must be some stage . . . when [Black
Americans] tak[e] the rank of a mere citizen, and ceas[e] to
be the special favorite of the laws.” Id., at 25. But Justice
Harlan knew better. He responded: “What the nation,
through Congress, has sought to accomplish in reference to
[Black people] is—what had already been done in every State
of the Union for the white race—to secure and protect rights
belonging to them as freemen and citizens; nothing more.”
Id., at 61 (dissenting opinion).
Justice Harlan dissented alone. And the betrayal that
this Court enabled had concrete effects. Enslaved Black
people had built great wealth, but only for enslavers.9 No
surprise, then, that freedmen leapt at the chance to control
their own labor and to build their own fnancial security.10
Still, White southerners often “simply refused to sell land to
blacks,” even when not selling was economically foolish.11
Page Proof Pending Publication
To bolster private exclusion, States sometimes passed laws
forbidding such sales.12 The inability to build wealth
through that most American of means forced Black people
into sharecropping roles, where they somehow always
tended to fnd themselves in debt to the landowner when the
growing season closed, with no hope of recourse against the
ever-present cooking of the books.13
Sharecropping is but one example of race-linked obstacles
that the law (and private parties) laid down to hinder the
9
M. Baradaran, The Color of Money: Black Banks and the Racial Wealth
Gap 9–11 (2017) (Baradaran).
10
Foner 179; see also Baradaran 15–16; I. Wilkerson, The Warmth of
Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration 37 (2010)
(Wilkerson).
11
Baradaran 18.
12
Ibid.
13
R. Rothstein, The Color of Law: A Forgotten History of How Our
Government Segregated America 154 (2017) (Rothstein); Baradaran 33–
34; Wilkerson 53–55.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 389

Jackson, J., dissenting

progress and prosperity of Black people. Vagrancy laws
criminalized free Black men who failed to work for White
landlords.14 Many States barred freedmen from hunting or
fshing to ensure that they could not live without entering
de facto reenslavement as sharecroppers.15 A cornucopia of
laws (e. g., banning hitchhiking, prohibiting encouraging a la-
borer to leave his employer, and penalizing those who
prompted Black southerners to migrate northward) ensured
that Black people could not freely seek better lives else-
where.16 And when statutes did not ensure compliance,
state-sanctioned (and private) violence did.17
Thus emerged Jim Crow—a system that was, as much as
anything else, a comprehensive scheme of economic exploita-
tion to replace the Black Codes, which themselves had re-
placed slavery's form of comprehensive economic exploi-
tation. 18 Meanwhile, as Jim Crow ossified, the Federal
Government was “giving away land” on the western frontier,
and with it “the opportunity for upward mobility and a more
Page Proof Pending Publication
secure future, ” over the 1862 Homestead Act's three-
quarter-century tenure.19 Black people were exceedingly
unlikely to be allowed to share in those benefts, which by
one calculation may have advantaged approximately 46 mil-
lion Americans living today.20
14
Baradaran 20–21; Du Bois 173–179, 694–696, 698–699; R. Goluboff, The
Thirteenth Amendment and the Lost Origins of Civil Rights, 50 Duke L. J.
1609, 1656–1659 (2001) (Goluboff); Wilkerson 152 (noting persistence of this
practice “well into the 1940s”).
15
Baradaran 20.
16
Goluboff 1656–1659 (recounting presence of these practices well into
the 20th century); Wilkerson 162–163.
17
Rothstein 154.
18
C. Black, The Lawfulness of the Segregation Decisions, 69 Yale L. J.
421, 424 (1960); Foner 47–48; Du Bois 179, 696; Baradaran 38–39.
19
T. Shanks, The Homestead Act: A Major Asset-Building Policy in
American History, in Inclusion in the American Dream: Assets, Poverty,
and Public Policy 23–25 (M. Sherraden ed. 2005) (Shanks); see also Bara-
daran 18.
20
Shanks 32–37; Oliver & Shapiro 37–38.
390 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

Despite these barriers, Black people persisted. Their so-
called Great Migration northward accelerated during and
after the First World War.21 Like clockwork, American
cities responded with racially exclusionary zoning (and simi-
lar policies).22 As a result, Black migrants had to pay dis-
proportionately high prices for disproportionately subpar
housing.23 Nor did migration make it more likely for Black
people to access home ownership, as banks would not lend to
Black people, and in the rare cases banks would fund home
loans, exorbitant interest rates were charged.24 With Black
people still locked out of the Homestead Act giveaway, it is
no surprise that, when the Great Depression arrived, race-
based wealth, health, and opportunity gaps were the norm.25
Federal and State Governments' selective intervention
further exacerbated the disparities. Consider, for example,
the federal Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC), cre-
ated in 1933.26 HOLC purchased mortgages threatened
with foreclosure and issued new, amortized mortgages in
Page Proof Pending Publication
their place.27 Not only did this mean that recipients of these
mortgages could gain equity while paying off the loan, suc-
cessful full payment would make the recipient a home-
owner.28 Ostensibly to identify (and avoid) the riskiest re-
cipients, the HOLC “created color-coded maps of every
metropolitan area in the nation.” 29 Green meant safe; red

21
Wilkerson 8–10; Rothstein 155.
22
Id., at 43–50; Baradaran 90–92.
23
Ibid.; Rothstein 172–173; Wilkerson 269–271.
24
Baradaran 90.
25
I. Katznelson, When Affrmative Action Was White: An Untold His-
tory of Racial Inequality in Twentieth-Century America 29–35 (2005)
(Katznelson).
26
D. Massey & N. Denton, American Apartheid: Segregation and the
Making of the Underclass 51–53 (1993); Oliver & Shapiro 16–18.
27
Rothstein 63.
28
Id., at 63–64.
29
Id., at 64; see Oliver & Shapiro 16–18; Baradaran 105.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 391

Jackson, J., dissenting

meant risky. And, regardless of class, every neighborhood
with Black people earned the red designation.30
Similarly, consider the Federal Housing Administration
(FHA), created in 1934, which insured highly desirable bank
mortgages. Eligibility for this insurance required an FHA
appraisal of the property to ensure a low default risk.31 But,
nationwide, it was FHA's established policy to provide
“no guarantees for mortgages to African Americans, or
to whites who might lease to African Americans,” irre-
spective of creditworthiness. 32 No surprise, then, that
“[b]etween 1934 and 1968, 98 percent of FHA loans went to
white Americans,” with whole cities (ones that had a dispro-
portionately large number of Black people due to housing
segregation) sometimes being deemed ineligible for FHA in-
tervention on racial grounds.33 The Veterans Administra-
tion operated similarly.34
One more example: the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
“chartered, insured, and regulated savings and loan associa-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tions from the early years of the New Deal.” 35 But it did
“not oppose the denial of mortgages to African Americans
until 1961” (and even then opposed discrimination
ineffectively).36
The upshot of all this is that, due to government policy
choices, “[i]n the suburban-shaping years between 1930 and
1960, fewer than one percent of all mortgages in the nation
were issued to African Americans.” 37 Thus, based on their
race, Black people were “[l]ocked out of the greatest mass-
30
Rothstein 64.
31
Ibid.
32
Id., at 67.
33
Baradaran 108; see Rothstein 69–75.
34
Id., at 9, 13, 70.
35
Id., at 108.
36
Ibid.
37
R. Schragger, The Limits of Localism, 100 Mich. L. Rev. 371, 411,
n. 144 (2001); see also Rothstein 182–183.
392 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

based opportunity for wealth accumulation in American
history.” 38
For present purposes, it is signifcant that, in so excluding
Black people, government policies affrmatively operated—
one could say, affrmatively acted—to dole out preferences
to those who, if nothing else, were not Black. Those past
preferences carried forward and are reinforced today by
(among other things) the benefts that fow to homeowners
and to the holders of other forms of capital that are hard to
obtain unless one already has assets.39
This discussion of how the existing gaps were formed is
merely illustrative, not exhaustive. I will pass over Con-
gress's repeated crafting of family-, worker-, and retiree-
protective legislation to channel benefts to White people,
thereby excluding Black Americans from what was other-
wise “a revolution in the status of most working Ameri-
cans.” 40 I will also skip how the G. I. Bill's “creation of . . .
middle-class America” (by giving $95 billion to veterans and
Page Proof Pending Publication
their families between 1944 and 1971) was “deliberately de-
signed to accommodate Jim Crow.” 41 So, too, will I bypass
how Black people were prevented from partaking in the con-
sumer credit market—a market that helped White people
who could access it build and protect wealth.42 Nor will
time and space permit my elaborating how local offcials' ra-
cial hostility meant that even those benefts that Black peo-
ple could formally obtain were unequally distributed along
racial lines.43 And I could not possibly discuss every way in
38
Oliver & Shapiro 18.
39
Id., at 43–44; Baradaran 109, 253–254; A. Dickerson, Shining a Bright
Light on the Color of Wealth, 120 Mich. L. Rev. 1085, 1100 (2022)
(Dickerson).
40
Katznelson 54; see id., at 22, 29, 42–48, 53–61; Rothstein 31, 155–156.
41
Katznelson 113–114; see id., at 113–141; see also, e. g., id., at 139–140
(Black veterans, North and South, were routinely denied loans that White
veterans received); Rothstein 167.
42
Baradaran 112–113.
43
Katznelson 22–23; Rothstein 167.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 393

Jackson, J., dissenting

which, in light of this history, facially race-blind policies still
work race-based harms today (e. g., racially disparate tax-
system treatment; the disproportionate location of toxic-
waste facilities in Black communities; or the deliberate action
of governments at all levels in designing interstate highways
to bisect and segregate Black urban communities).44
The point is this: Given our history, the origin of persistent
race-linked gaps should be no mystery. It has never been a
defciency of Black Americans' desire or ability to, in Freder-
ick Douglass's words, “stand on [their] own legs.” 45 Rather,
it was always simply what Justice Harlan recognized 140
years ago—the persistent and pernicious denial of “what had
already been done in every State of the Union for the white
race.” Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S., at 61 (dissenting
opinion).
B
History speaks. In some form, it can be heard forever.
Page Proof Pending Publication
The race-based gaps that frst developed centuries ago are
echoes from the past that still exist today. By all accounts,
they are still stark.
Start with wealth and income. Just four years ago, in
2019, Black families' median wealth was approximately
$24,000.46 For White families, that number was approxi-
mately eight times as much (about $188,000). 4 7 These
wealth disparities “exis[t] at every income and education
level,” so, “[o]n average, white families with college degrees
44
Id., at 54–56, 65, 127–131, 217; Stanford Institute for Economic Policy
Research, Measuring and Mitigating Disparities in Tax Audits 1–7 (2023);
Dickerson 1096–1097.
45
What the Black Man Wants: An Address Delivered in Boston, Mas-
sachusetts, on 26 January 1865, in 4 The Frederick Douglass Papers 68
(J. Blassingame & J. McKivigan eds. 1991).
46
Dickerson 1086 (citing data from 2019 Federal Reserve Survey of Con-
sumer Finances); see also Rothstein 184 (reporting, in 2017, even lower
median-wealth number of $11,000).
47
Dickerson 1086; see also Rothstein 184 (reporting even larger relative
gap in 2017 of $134,000 to $11,000).
394 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

have over $300,000 more wealth than black families with col-
lege degrees.” 48 This disparity has also accelerated over
time—from a roughly $40,000 gap between White and Black
household median net worth in 1993 to a roughly $135,000
gap in 2019.49 Median income numbers from 2019 tell the
same story: $76,057 for White households, $98,174 for Asian
households, $56,113 for Latino households, and $45,438 for
Black households.50
These fnancial gaps are unsurprising in light of the link
between home ownership and wealth. Today, as was true
50 years ago, Black home ownership trails White home own-
ership by approximately 25 percentage points.51 Moreover,
Black Americans' homes (relative to White Americans') con-
stitute a greater percentage of household wealth, yet tend to
be worth less, are subject to higher effective property taxes,
and generally lost more value in the Great Recession.52
From those markers of social and fnancial unwellness fow
others. In most state fagship higher educational institu-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tions, the percentage of Black undergraduates is lower than
the percentage of Black high school graduates in that State.53
Black Americans in their late twenties are about half as
48
Baradaran 249; see also Dickerson 1089–1090; Oliver & Shapiro 94–95,
100–101, 110–111, 197.
49
See Brief for National Academy of Education as Amicus Curiae 14–
15 (citing U. S. Census Bureau statistics).
50
Id., at 14 (citing U. S. Census Bureau statistics); Rothstein 184 (report-
ing similarly stark White/Black income gap numbers in 2017). Early re-
turns suggest that the COVID–19 pandemic exacerbated these disparities.
See E. Derenoncourt, C. Kim, M. Kuhn, & M. Schularick, Wealth of Two
Nations: The U. S. Racial Wealth Gap, 1860–2020, p. 22 (Fed. Reserve
Bank of Minneapolis, Opportunity & Inclusive Growth Inst., Working
Paper No. 59, June 2022) (Wealth of Two Nations); L. Bollinger & G. Stone,
A Legacy of Discrimination: The Essential Constitutionality of Affrma-
tive Action 103 (2023) (Bollinger & Stone).
51
Id., at 87; Wealth of Two Nations 77–79.
52
Id., at 78, 89; Bollinger & Stone 94–95; Dickerson 1101.
53
Bollinger & Stone 99–100.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 395

Jackson, J., dissenting

likely as their White counterparts to have college degrees.54
And because lower family income and wealth force students
to borrow more, those Black students who do graduate col-
lege fnd themselves four years out with about $50,000
in student debt—nearly twice as much as their White
compatriots.55
As for postsecondary professional arenas, despite being
about 13% of the population, Black people make up only
about 5% of lawyers.56 Such disparity also appears in the
business realm: Of the roughly 1,800 chief executive offcers
to have appeared on the well-known Fortune 500 list, fewer
than 25 have been Black (as of 2022, only six are Black).57
Furthermore, as the COVID–19 pandemic raged, Black-
owned small businesses failed at dramatically higher rates
than White-owned small businesses, partly due to the dispro-
portionate denial of the forgivable loans needed to survive
the economic downturn.58
Health gaps track fnancial ones. When tested, Black chil-
Page Proof Pending Publication
dren have blood lead levels that are twice the rate of White
children—“irreversible” contamination working irremediable
harm on developing brains.59 Black (and Latino) children
with heart conditions are more likely to die than their White
counterparts.60 Race-linked mortality-rate disparity has
also persisted, and is highest among infants.61

54
Id., at 99, and n. 58.
55
Dickerson 1088; Bollinger & Stone 100, and n. 63.
56
ABA, Profle of the Legal Profession 33 (2020).
57
Bollinger & Stone 106; Brief for HR Policy Association as Amicus
Curiae 18–19.
58
Dickerson 1102.
59
Rothstein 230.
60
Brief for Association of American Medical Colleges et al. as Amici
Curiae 8 (AMC Brief).
61
C. Caraballo et al., Excess Mortality and Years of Potential Life Lost
Among the Black Population in the U. S., 1999–2020, 329 JAMA 1662, 1663,
1667 (May 16, 2023) (Caraballo).
396 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

So, too, for adults: Black men are twice as likely to die
from prostate cancer as White men and have lower 5-year
cancer survival rates.62 Uterine cancer has spiked in recent
years among all women—but has spiked highest for Black
women, who die of uterine cancer at nearly twice the rate of
“any other racial or ethnic group.” 63 Black mothers are up
to four times more likely than White mothers to die as a
result of childbirth.64 And COVID killed Black Americans
at higher rates than White Americans.65
“Across the board, Black Americans experience the high-
est rates of obesity, hypertension, maternal mortality, infant
mortality, stroke, and asthma.” 66 These and other dispari-
ties—the predictable result of opportunity disparities—lead
to at least 50,000 excess deaths a year for Black Americans
vis-à-vis White Americans.67 That is 80 million excess years
of life lost from just 1999 through 2020.68
Amici tell us that “race-linked health inequities pervad[e]
nearly every index of human health” resulting “in an over-
Page Proof Pending Publication
all reduced life expectancy for racial and ethnic minorities
that cannot be explained by genetics.” 69 Meanwhile—tying
health and wealth together—while she lays dying, the typi-
cal Black American “pay[s] more for medical care and incur[s]
more medical debt.” 70
C
We return to John and James now, with history in hand.
It is hardly John's fault that he is the seventh generation to
62
Bollinger & Stone 101.
63
S. Whetstone et al., Health Disparities in Uterine Cancer: Report
From the Uterine Cancer Evidence Review Conference, 139 Obstetrics &
Gynecology 645, 647–648 (2022).
64
AMC Brief 8–9.
65
Bollinger & Stone 101; Caraballo 1663–1665, 1668.
66
Bollinger & Stone 101 (footnotes omitted).
67
Caraballo 1667.
68
Ibid.
69
AMC Brief 9.
70
Bollinger & Stone 100.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 397

Jackson, J., dissenting

graduate from UNC. UNC should permit him to honor that
legacy. Neither, however, was it James's (or his family's)
fault that he would be the frst. And UNC ought to be able
to consider why.
Most likely, seven generations ago, when John's family was
building its knowledge base and wealth potential on the uni-
versity's campus, James's family was enslaved and laboring
in North Carolina's felds. Six generations ago, the North
Carolina “Redeemers” aimed to nullify the results of the
Civil War through terror and violence, marauding in hopes of
excluding all who looked like James from equal citizenship.71
Five generations ago, the North Carolina Red Shirts fnished
the job.72 Four (and three) generations ago, Jim Crow was
so entrenched in the State of North Carolina that UNC “en-
forced its own Jim Crow regulations.” 73 Two generations
ago, North Carolina's Governor still railed against “ `integra-
tion for integration's sake' ”—and UNC Black enrollment
was minuscule.74 So, at bare minimum, one generation ago,
Page Proof Pending Publication
James's family was six generations behind because of their
race, making John's six generations ahead.
These stories are not every student's story. But they are
many students' stories. To demand that colleges ignore
race in today's admissions practices—and thus disregard the
fact that racial disparities may have mattered for where
some applicants fnd themselves today—is not only an affront
to the dignity of those students for whom race matters.75 It
also condemns our society to never escape the past that ex-
71
See Report on the Alleged Outrages in the Southern States, S. Rep.
No. 1, 42d Cong., 1st Sess., I–XXXII (1871).
72
See D. Tokaji, Realizing the Right To Vote: The Story of Thornburg
v. Gingles, in Election Law Stories 133–139 (J. Douglas & E. Mazo eds.
2016); see Foner xxii.
73
3 App. 1683.
74
Id., at 1687–1688.
75
See O. James, Valuing Identity, 102 Minn. L. Rev. 127, 162 (2017);
P. Karlan & D. Levinson, Why Voting Is Different, 84 Cal. L. Rev. 1201,
1217 (1996).
398 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

plains how and why race matters to the very concept of who
“merits” admission.
Permitting (not requiring) colleges like UNC to assess
merit fully, without blinders on, plainly advances (not
thwarts) the Fourteenth Amendment's core promise. UNC
considers race as one of many factors in order to best assess
the entire unique import of John's and James's individual
lives and inheritances on an equal basis. Doing so involves
acknowledging (not ignoring) the seven generations' worth
of historical privileges and disadvantages that each of these
applicants was born with when his own life's journey started
a mere 18 years ago.
II
Recognizing all this, UNC has developed a holistic review
process to evaluate applicants for admission. Students must
submit standardized test scores and other conventional infor-
mation.76 But applicants are not required to submit demo-
Page Proof Pending Publication
graphic information like gender and race.77 UNC considers
whatever information each applicant submits using a nonex-
haustive list of 40 criteria grouped into eight categories: “ac-
ademic performance, academic program, standardized test-
ing, extracurricular activity, special talent, essay criteria,
background, and personal criteria.” 78
Drawing on those 40 criteria, a UNC staff member evalu-
ating John and James would consider, with respect to each,
his “engagement outside the classroom; persistence of com-
mitment; demonstrated capacity for leadership; contributions
to family, school, and community; work history; [and his]
unique or unusual interests.” 79 Relevant, too, would be his
“relative advantage or disadvantage, as indicated by family
income level, education history of family members, impact of
76
567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 595 (MDNC 2021).
77
Id., at 596; 1 App. 348; Decl. of J. Rosenberg in No. 1:14–cv–954
(MDNC, Jan. 18, 2019), ECF Doc. 154–7, ¶10 (Rosenberg).
78
1 App. 350; see also 3 id., at 1414–1415.
79
Id., at 1414.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 399

Jackson, J., dissenting

parents/guardians in the home, or formal education environ-
ment; experience of growing up in rural or center-city loca-
tions; [and his] status as child or step-child of Carolina
alumni.” 80 The list goes on. The process is holistic,
through and through.
So where does race come in? According to UNC's
admissions-policy document, reviewers may also consider
“the race or ethnicity of any student” (if that information is
provided) in light of UNC's interest in diversity.81 And, yes,
“the race or ethnicity of any student may—or may not—
receive a `plus' in the evaluation process depending on the
individual circumstances revealed in the student's applica-
tion.” 82 Stephen Farmer, the head of UNC's Offce of Un-
dergraduate Admissions, confrmed at trial (under oath) that
UNC's admissions process operates in this fashion.83
Thus, to be crystal clear: Every student who chooses to
disclose his or her race is eligible for such a race-linked plus,
Page Proof Pending Publication
just as any student who chooses to disclose his or her unusual
interests can be credited for what those interests might add
to UNC. The record supports no intimation to the contrary.
Eligibility is just that; a plus is never automatically awarded,
never considered in numerical terms, and never automati-
cally results in an offer of admission.84 There are no race-

80
Id., at 1415.
81
Id., at 1416; see also 2 id., at 706; Rosenberg ¶22.
82
3 App. 1416 (emphasis added); see also 2 id., at 631–639.
83
567 F. Supp. 3d, at 591, 595; 2 App. 638 (Farmer, when asked how race
could “b[e] a potential plus” for “students other than underrepresented
minority students,” pointing to a North Carolinian applicant, originally
from Vietnam, who identifed as “Asian and Montagnard”); id., at 639
(Farmer stating that “the whole of [that student's] background was appeal-
ing to us when we evaluated her applicatio[n],” and noting how her “story
reveals sometimes how hard it is to separate race out from other things
that we know about a student. That was integral to that student's story.
It was part of our understanding of her, and it played a role in our deciding
to admit her”).
84
3 id., at 1416; Rosenberg ¶25.
400 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

based quotas in UNC's holistic review process.85 In fact,
during the admissions cycle, the school prevents anyone who
knows the overall racial makeup of the admitted-student pool
from reading any applications.86
More than that, every applicant is also eligible for a
diversity-linked plus (beyond race) more generally.87 And,
notably, UNC understands diversity broadly, including “so-
cioeconomic status, frst-generation college status . . . politi-
cal beliefs, religious beliefs . . . diversity of thoughts, experi-
ences, ideas, and talents.” 88
A plus, by its nature, can certainly matter to an admissions
case. But make no mistake: When an applicant chooses to
disclose his or her race, UNC treats that aspect of identity
on par with other aspects of applicants' identity that affect
who they are ( just like, say, where one grew up, or medical
challenges one has faced).89 And race is considered along-
side any other factor that sheds light on what attributes ap-
Page Proof Pending Publication
plicants will bring to the campus and whether they are likely
to excel once there.90 A reader of today's majority opinion
could be forgiven for misunderstanding how UNC's program
really works, or for missing that, under UNC's holistic re-
view process, a White student could receive a diversity plus
while a Black student might not.91

85
2 App. 631.
86
Id., at 636–637, 713.
87
3 id., at 1416; 2 id., at 699–700.
88
Id., at 699; see also Rosenberg ¶24.
89
2 App. 706, 708; 3 id., at 1415–1416.
90
2 id., at 706, 708; 3 id., at 1415–1416.
91
A reader might miss this because the majority does not bother to drill
down on how UNC's holistic admissions process operates. Perhaps that
explains its failure to apprehend (by reviewing the evidence presented at
trial) that everyone, no matter their race, is eligible for a diversity-linked
plus. Compare ante, at 197, and n. 1, with 3 App. 1416, and supra, at
this page. The majority also repeatedly mischaracterizes UNC's holistic
admissions-review process as a “race-based admissions system,” and in-
sists that UNC's program involves “separating students on the basis of
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 401

Jackson, J., dissenting

UNC does not do all this to provide handouts to either
John or James. It does this to ascertain who among its tens
of thousands of applicants has the capacity to take full advan-
tage of the opportunity to attend, and contribute to, this
prestigious institution, and thus merits admission.92 And
UNC has concluded that ferreting this out requires under-
standing the full person, which means taking seriously not
just SAT scores or whether the applicant plays the trumpet,
but also any way in which the applicant's race-linked experi-
ence bears on his capacity and merit. In this way, UNC is
able to value what it means for James, whose ancestors re-
ceived no race-based advantages, to make himself competi-
tive for admission to a fagship school nevertheless. More-
over, recognizing this aspect of James's story does not
preclude UNC from valuing John's legacy or any obstacles
that his story refects.
So, to repeat: UNC's program permits, but does not re-
quire, admissions offcers to value both John's and James's
Page Proof Pending Publication
love for their State, their high schools' rigor, and whether
either has overcome obstacles that are indicative of their
“persistence of commitment.” 93 It permits, but does not re-
quire, them to value John's identity as a child of UNC alumni
(or, perhaps, if things had turned out differently, as a frst-
race” and “pick[ing only certain] races to beneft.” Ante, at 197, and n. 1,
217, 229. These claims would be concerning if they had any basis in the
record. The majority appears to have misunderstood (or categorically re-
jected) the established fact that UNC treats race as merely one of the
many aspects of an applicant that, in the real world, matter to understand-
ing the whole person. Moreover, its holistic review process involves re-
viewing a wide variety of personal criteria, not just race. Every applicant
competes against thousands of other applicants, each of whom has personal
qualities that are taken into account and that other applicants do not—
and could not—have. Thus, the elimination of the race-linked plus would
still leave SFFA's members competing against thousands of other appli-
cants to UNC, each of whom has potentially plus-conferring qualities that
a given SFFA member does not.
92
See 3 App. 1409, 1414, 1416.
93
Id., at 1414–1415.
402 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

generation White student from Appalachia whose family
struggled to make ends meet during the Great Recession).
And it permits, but does not require, them to value James's
race—not in the abstract, but as an element of who he is, no
less than his love for his State, his high school courses, and
the obstacles he has overcome.
Understood properly, then, what SFFA caricatures as an
unfair race-based preference cashes out, in a holistic system,
to a personalized assessment of the advantages and disad-
vantages that every applicant might have received by acci-
dent of birth plus all that has happened to them since. It
ensures a full accounting of everything that bears on the in-
dividual's resilience and likelihood of enhancing the UNC
campus. It also forecasts his potential for entering the
wider world upon graduation and making a meaningful con-
tribution to the larger, collective, societal goal that the Equal
Protection Clause embodies (its guarantee that the United
States of America offers genuinely equal treatment to every
Page Proof Pending Publication
person, regardless of race).
Furthermore, and importantly, the fact that UNC's holistic
process ensures a full accounting makes it far from clear that
any particular applicant of color will fnish ahead of any par-
ticular nonminority applicant. For example, as the District
Court found, a higher percentage of the most academically
excellent in-state Black candidates (as SFFA's expert defned
academic excellence) were denied admission than similarly
qualifed White and Asian American applicants.94 That, if
94
See 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 617, 619; 3 App. 1078–1080. The majority
cannot deny this factual fnding. Instead, it conducts its own back-of-the-
envelope calculations (its numbers appear nowhere in the District Court's
opinion) regarding “the overall acceptance rates of academically excellent
applicants to UNC,” in an effort to trivialize the District Court's conclu-
sion. Ante, at 197, n. 1. I am inclined to stick with the District Court's
fndings over the majority's unauthenticated calculations. Even when the
majority's ad hoc statistical analysis is taken at face value, it hardly sup-
ports what the majority wishes to intimate: that Black students are being
admitted based on UNC's myopic focus on “race—and race alone.” Ante,
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 403

Jackson, J., dissenting

nothing else, is indicative of a genuinely holistic process; it
is evidence that, both in theory and in practice, UNC recog-
nizes that race—like any other aspect of a person—may bear
on where both John and James start the admissions relay,
but will not fully determine whether either eventually
crosses the fnish line.
III
A
The majority seems to think that race blindness solves the
problem of race-based disadvantage. But the irony is that
requiring colleges to ignore the initial race-linked opportu-
nity gap between applicants like John and James will inevita-
bly widen that gap, not narrow it. It will delay the day that
every American has an equal opportunity to thrive, regard-
less of race.
SFFA similarly asks us to consider how much longer UNC
will be able to justify considering race in its admissions proc-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ess. Whatever the answer to that question was yesterday,
today's decision will undoubtedly extend the duration of our
country's need for such race consciousness, because the justi-
fcation for admissions programs that account for race is in-
separable from the race-linked gaps in health, wealth, and
well-being that still exist in our society (the closure of which
today's decision will forestall).

at 219, n. 6. As the District Court observed, if these Black students
“were largely defned in the admissions process by their race, one would
expect to fnd that every” such student “demonstrating academic excel-
lence . . . would be admitted.” 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 619 (emphasis added).
Contrary to the majority's narrative, “race does not even act as a tipping
point for some students with otherwise exceptional qualifcations.” Ibid.
Moreover, as the District Court also found, UNC does not even use the
bespoke “academic excellence” metric that SFFA's expert “ `invented' ” for
this litigation. Id., at 617, 619; see also id., at 624–625. The majority's
calculations of overall acceptance rates by race on that metric bear scant
relationship to, and thus are no indictment of, how UNC's admissions proc-
ess actually works (a recurring theme in its opinion).
404 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

To be sure, while the gaps are stubborn and pernicious,
Black people, and other minorities, have generally been
doing better.95 But those improvements have only been
made possible because institutions like UNC have been will-
ing to grapple forthrightly with the burdens of history.
SFFA's complaint about the “indefnite” use of race-conscious
admissions programs, then, is a non sequitur. These pro-
grams respond to deep-rooted, objectively measurable prob-
lems; their defnite end will be when we succeed, together,
in solving those problems.
Accordingly, while there are many perversities of today's
judgment, the majority's failure to recognize that programs
like UNC's carry with them the seeds of their own destruc-
tion is surely one of them. The ultimate goal of recognizing
James's full story and (potentially) admitting him to UNC is
to give him the necessary tools to contribute to closing the
equity gaps discussed in Part I, supra, so that he and his
progeny—and therefore all Americans—can compete with-
Page Proof Pending Publication
out race mattering in the future. That intergenerational
project is undeniably a worthy one.
In addition, and notably, that end is not fully achieved just
because James is admitted. Schools properly care about
preventing racial isolation on campus because research
shows that it matters for students' ability to learn and suc-
ceed while in college if they live and work with at least some
other people who look like them and are likely to have similar
experiences related to that shared characteristic.96 Equally
critical, UNC's program ensures that students who don't
share the same stories (like John and James) will interact in
classes and on campus, and will thereby come to understand

95
See Bollinger & Stone 86, 103.
96
See, e. g., Brief for University of Michigan as Amicus Curiae 6, 24;
Brief for President and Chancellors of University of California as Amici
Curiae 20–29; Brief for American Psychological Association et al. as
Amici Curiae 14–16, 21–23 (APA Brief).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 405

Jackson, J., dissenting

each other's stories, which amici tell us improves cognitive
abilities and critical-thinking skills, reduces prejudice, and
better prepares students for postgraduate life.97
Beyond campus, the diversity that UNC pursues for the
betterment of its students and society is not a trendy slogan.
It saves lives. For marginalized communities in North Car-
olina, it is critically important that UNC and other area in-
stitutions produce highly educated professionals of color.
Research shows that Black physicians are more likely to ac-
curately assess Black patients' pain tolerance and treat them
accordingly (including, for example, prescribing them appro-
priate amounts of pain medication).98 For high-risk Black
newborns, having a Black physician more than doubles the
likelihood that the baby will live, and not die.99 Studies also
confrm what common sense counsels: Closing wealth dispari-
ties through programs like UNC's—which, beyond diversify-
ing the medical profession, opens doors to every sort of
Page Proof Pending Publication
opportunity—helps address the aforementioned health dis-
parities (in the long run) as well.100
Do not miss the point that ensuring a diverse student body
in higher education helps everyone, not just those who,
due to their race, have directly inherited distinct disadvan-
tages with respect to their health, wealth, and well-being.
Amici explain that students of every race will come to have
a greater appreciation and understanding of civic virtue,
democratic values, and our country's commitment to equal-

97
Id., at 14–20, 23–27.
98
AMC Brief 4, 14; see also Brief for American Federation of Teachers
as Amicus Curiae 10 (AFT Brief) (collecting further studies on the “tan-
gible benefts” of patients' access to doctors who look like them).
99
AMC Brief 4.
100
National Research Council, New Horizons in Health: An Integrative
Approach 100–111 (2001); Pollack et al., Should Health Studies Measure
Wealth? A Systematic Review, 33 Am. J. Preventative Med. 250, 252, 261–
263 (2007); see also Part I–B, supra.
406 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

ity.101 The larger economy benefts, too: When it comes
down to the brass tacks of dollars and cents, ensuring diver-
sity will, if permitted to work, help save hundreds of billions
of dollars annually (by conservative estimates).102
Thus, we should be celebrating the fact that UNC, once a
stronghold of Jim Crow, has now come to understand this.
The fagship educational institution of a former Confederate
State has embraced its constitutional obligation to afford
genuine equal protection to applicants, and, by extension, to
the broader polity that its students will serve after gradua-
tion. Surely that is progress for a university that once en-
gaged in the kind of patently offensive race-dominated ad-
missions process that the majority decries.
With its holistic review process, UNC now treats race as
merely one aspect of an applicant's life, when race played a
totalizing, all-encompassing, and singularly determinative
role for applicants like James for most of this country's his-
tory: No matter what else was true about him, being Black
Page Proof Pending Publication
meant he had no shot at getting in (the ultimate race-linked
uneven playing feld). Holistic programs like UNC's refect
the reality that Black students have only relatively recently
been permitted to get into the admissions game at all. Such
programs also refect universities' clear-eyed optimism that,
one day, race will no longer matter.
So much upside. Universal benefts ensue from holistic
admissions programs that allow consideration of all factors
material to merit (including race), and that thereby facilitate
diverse student populations. Once trained, those UNC stu-
dents who have thrived in the university's diverse learning

101
See APA Brief 14–20, 23–27 (collecting studies); AFT Brief 11–12
(same); Brief for National School Boards Association et al. as Amici Cu-
riae 6–11 (same); see also 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 592–593, 655–656 (factual
fndings in this case with respect to these benefts).
102
LaVeist et al., The Economic Burden of Racial, Ethnic, and Educa-
tional Health Inequities in the U. S., 329 JAMA 1682, 1683–1684, 1689, 1691
(May 16, 2023).
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 407

Jackson, J., dissenting

environment are well equipped to make lasting contributions
in a variety of realms and with a variety of colleagues, which,
in turn, will steadily decrease the salience of race for future
generations. Fortunately, UNC and other institutions of
higher learning are already on this benefcial path. In fact,
all that they have needed to continue moving this country
forward (toward full achievement of our Nation's founding
promises) is for this Court to get out of the way and let them
do their jobs. To our great detriment, the majority cannot
bring itself to do so.
B
The overarching reason the majority gives for becoming
an impediment to racial progress—that its own conception
of the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause
leaves it no other option—has a wholly self-referential, two-
dimensional fatness. The majority and concurring opinions
rehearse this Court's idealistic vision of racial equality, from
Page Proof Pending Publication
Brown forward, with appropriate lament for past indiscre-
tions. See, e. g., ante, at 201–203. But the race-linked gaps
that the law (aided by this Court) previously founded and
fostered—which indisputably defne our present reality—are
strangely absent and do not seem to matter.
With let-them-eat-cake obliviousness, today, the majority
pulls the ripcord and announces “colorblindness for all” by
legal fat. But deeming race irrelevant in law does not make
it so in life. And having so detached itself from this coun-
try's actual past and present experiences, the Court has now
been lured into interfering with the crucial work that UNC
and other institutions of higher learning are doing to solve
America's real-world problems.
No one benefts from ignorance. Although formal race-
linked legal barriers are gone, race still matters to the lived
experiences of all Americans in innumerable ways, and to-
day's ruling makes things worse, not better. The best that
can be said of the majority's perspective is that it proceeds
(ostrich-like) from the hope that preventing consideration of
408 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

race will end racism. But if that is its motivation, the ma-
jority proceeds in vain. If the colleges of this country are
required to ignore a thing that matters, it will not just go
away. It will take longer for racism to leave us. And, ulti-
mately, ignoring race just makes it matter more.103
The only way out of this morass—for all of us—is to stare
at racial disparity unblinkingly, and then do what evidence
and experts tell us is required to level the playing feld and
march forward together, collectively striving to achieve true
equality for all Americans. It is no small irony that the
judgment the majority hands down today will forestall the
end of race-based disparities in this country, making the col-
orblind world the majority wistfully touts much more diff-
cult to accomplish.

103
Justice Thomas’s prolonged attack, ante, at 278–283 (concurring
opinion), responds to a dissent I did not write in order to assail an admis-
sions program that is not the one UNC has crafted. He does not dispute
Page Proof Pending Publication
any historical or present fact about the origins and continued existence of
race-based disparity (nor could he), yet is somehow persuaded that these
realities have no bearing on a fair assessment of “individual achievement,”
ante, at 280. Justice Thomas’s opinion also demonstrates an obsession
with race consciousness that far outstrips my or UNC's holistic under-
standing that race can be a factor that affects applicants' unique life expe-
riences. How else can one explain his detection of “an organizing princi-
ple based on race,” a claim that our society is “fundamentally racist,” and
a desire for Black “victimhood” or racial “silo[s],” ante, at 278–280, in this
dissent's approval of an admissions program that advances all Americans'
shared pursuit of true equality by treating race “on par with” other as-
pects of identity, supra, at 400? Justice Thomas ignites too many more
straw men to list, or fully extinguish, here. The takeaway is that those
who demand that no one think about race (a classic pink-elephant paradox)
refuse to see, much less solve for, the elephant in the room—the race-
linked disparities that continue to impede achievement of our great Na-
tion's full potential. Worse still, by insisting that obvious truths be
ignored, they prevent our problem-solving institutions from directly ad-
dressing the real import and impact of “social racism” and “government-
imposed racism,” ante, at 283 (Thomas, J., concurring), thereby deterring
our collective progression toward becoming a society where race no
longer matters.
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 409

Jackson, J., dissenting

* * *
As the Civil War neared its conclusion, General William T.
Sherman and Secretary of War Edwin Stanton convened a
meeting of Black leaders in Savannah, Georgia. During the
meeting, someone asked Garrison Frazier, the group's
spokesperson, what “freedom” meant to him. He answered,
“ `placing us where we could reap the fruit of our own labor,
and take care of ourselves . . . to have land, and turn it and
till it by our own labor.' ” 104
Today's gaps exist because that freedom was denied far
longer than it was ever afforded. Therefore, as Justice So-
tomayor correctly and amply explains, UNC's holistic re-
view program pursues a righteous end—legitimate “ `be-
cause it is defned by the Constitution itself. The end is the
maintenance of freedom.' ” Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co.,
392 U. S. 409, 443–444 (1968) (quoting Cong. Globe, 39th
Cong., 1st Sess., 1118 (1866) (Rep. Wilson)).
Page Proof Pending Publication
Viewed from this perspective, beleaguered admissions pro-
grams such as UNC's are not pursuing a patently unfair,
ends-justifed ideal of a multiracial democracy at all. In-
stead, they are engaged in an earnest effort to secure a more
functional one. The admissions rubrics they have con-
structed now recognize that an individual's “merit”—his abil-
ity to succeed in an institute of higher learning and ulti-
mately contribute something to our society—cannot be fully
determined without understanding that individual in full.
There are no special favorites here.
UNC has thus built a review process that more accurately
assesses merit than most of the admissions programs that
have existed since this country's founding. Moreover, in so
doing, universities like UNC create pathways to upward mo-
bility for long excluded and historically disempowered racial
groups. Our Nation's history more than justifes this course
of action. And our present reality indisputably establishes

104
Foner 179.
410 STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC. v. PRESIDENT
AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
Jackson, J., dissenting

that such programs are still needed—for the general public
good—because after centuries of state-sanctioned (and en-
acted) race discrimination, the aforementioned intergenera-
tional race-based gaps in health, wealth, and well-being stub-
bornly persist.
Rather than leaving well enough alone, today, the majority
is having none of it. Turning back the clock (to a time be-
fore the legal arguments and evidence establishing the
soundness of UNC's holistic admissions approach existed),
the Court indulges those who either do not know our Na-
tion's history or long to repeat it. Simply put, the race-blind
admissions stance the Court mandates from this day forward
is unmoored from critical real-life circumstances. Thus, the
Court's meddling not only arrests the noble generational
project that America's universities are attempting, it also
launches, in effect, a dismally misinformed sociological
experiment.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Time will reveal the results. Yet the Court's own mis-
steps are now both eternally memorialized and excruciat-
ingly plain. For one thing—based, apparently, on nothing
more than Justice Powell's initial say so—it drastically
discounts the primary reason that the racial-diversity ob-
jectives it excoriates are needed, consigning race-related
historical happenings to the Court's own analytical dust-
bin. Also, by latching onto arbitrary timelines and profess-
ing insecurity about missing metrics, the Court sidesteps
unrefuted proof of the compelling benefts of holistic admis-
sions programs that factor in race (hard to do, for there
is plenty), simply proceeding as if no such evidence exists.
Then, ultimately, the Court surges to vindicate equal-
ity, but Don Quixote style—pitifully perceiving itself as the
sole vanguard of legal high ground when, in reality, its
perspective is not constitutionally compelled and will ham-
per the best judgments of our world-class educational in-
stitutions about who they need to bring onto their cam-
 Cite as: 600 U. S. 181 (2023) 411

Jackson, J., dissenting

puses right now to beneft every American, no matter their
race.105
The Court has come to rest on the bottom-line conclusion
that racial diversity in higher education is only worth poten-
tially preserving insofar as it might be needed to prepare
Black Americans and other underrepresented minorities for
success in the bunker, not the boardroom (a particularly awk-
ward place to land, in light of the history the majority opts
to ignore).106 It would be deeply unfortunate if the Equal
Protection Clause actually demanded this perverse, ahistor-
ical, and counterproductive outcome. To impose this result
in that Clause's name when it requires no such thing, and
to thereby obstruct our collective progress toward the full
realization of the Clause's promise, is truly a tragedy for
us all.

Page Proof Pending Publication
105
Justice Sotomayor has fully explained why the majority's analysis
is legally erroneous and how UNC's holistic review program is entirely
consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment. My goal here has been to
highlight the interests at stake and to show that holistic admissions pro-
grams that factor in race are warranted, just, and universally benefcial.
All told, the Court's myopic misunderstanding of what the Constitution
permits will impede what experts and evidence tell us is required (as a
matter of social science) to solve for pernicious race-based inequities that
are themselves rooted in the persistent denial of equal protection. “[T]he
potential consequences of the [majority's] approach, as measured against
the Constitution's objectives . . . provides further reason to believe that
the [majority's] approach is legally unsound.” Parents Involved in Com-
munity Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. 1, 551 U. S. 701, 858 (2007)
(Breyer, J., dissenting). I fear that the Court's folly brings our Nation to
the brink of coming “full circle” once again. Regents of Univ. of Cal. v.
Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 402 (1978) (opinion of Marshall, J.).
106
Compare ante, at 213, n. 4, with ante, at 213–221, and supra, at 386–
387, and nn. 2–3.
 Reporter’s Note

The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication
and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination
makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of
publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions
for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of
the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and
who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was
argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may
include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant
punctuation. The following additional edits were made:
Page Proof Pending Publication
p. 229, line 13: “must make” is replaced with “defends by making”
p. 229, line 14: “to defend” is deleted
p. 230, line 11 from bottom: “(under seal); Students for Fair Admissions,
Inc. v. University of N. C. at Chapel Hill, No. 1:14–cv–954 (MDNC,
Feb. 5, 2021), ECF Doc. 246, pp. 14–15, ¶¶ 25–26 (summarizing sealed
material);” is inserted after “1741”
p. 274, line 5: “were” is inserted before “even”
p. 285, line 2 from bottom: “have” is replaced with “has”
p. 372, lines 18 and 19: “; see id., at 6” full citation is deleted and a period
is inserted.
p. 404, lines 17 and 18: “he, his progeny” is replaced with “he and his
progeny”


=== SCOTUS Slip Opinion: 599us1r38_khmp ===

PRELIMINARY PRINT

Volume 599 U. S. Part 1
Pages 255–381

OFFICIAL REPORTS
OF

THE SUPREME COURT
June 15, 2023

Page Proof Pending Publication

REBECCA A. WOMELDORF
reporter of decisions

NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before
the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter
of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors.
 OCTOBER TERM, 2022 255

Syllabus

HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, et al.
v. BRACKEEN et al.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for
the fth circuit
No. 21–376. Argued November 9, 2022—Decided June 15, 2023*
This case arises from three separate child custody proceedings governed
by the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), a federal statute that aims to
keep Indian children connected to Indian families. ICWA governs
state-court adoption and foster care proceedings involving Indian chil-
dren. Among other things, the Act requires placement of an Indian
child according to the Act's hierarchical preferences, unless the state
court fnds “good cause” to depart from them. 25 U. S. C. §§ 1915(a),
(b). Under those preferences, Indian families or institutions from any
tribe (not just the tribe to which the child has a tie) outrank unrelated
non-Indians or non-Indian institutions. Further, the child's tribe may
pass a resolution altering the prioritization order. § 1915(c). The pref-
erences of the Indian child or her parent generally cannot trump those
Page Proof Pending Publication
set by statute or tribal resolution.
In involuntary proceedings, the Act mandates that the Indian child's
parent or custodian and tribe be given notice of any custody proceed-
ings, as well as the right to intervene. §§ 1912(a), (b), (c). Section
1912(d) requires a party seeking to terminate parental rights or to re-
move an Indian child from an unsafe environment to “satisfy the court
that active efforts have been made to provide remedial services and
rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of the Indian
family,” and a court cannot order relief unless the party demonstrates,
by a heightened burden of proof and expert testimony, that the child is
likely to suffer “serious emotional or physical damage” if the parent or
Indian custodian retains custody. §§ 1912(d), (e). Even for voluntary
proceedings, a biological parent who gives up an Indian child cannot
necessarily choose the child's foster or adoptive parents. The child's
tribe has “a right to intervene at any point in [a] proceeding” to place a
child in foster care or terminate parental rights, as well as a right to
collaterally attack the state court's custody decree. §§ 1911(c), 1914.

*Together with No. 21–377, Cherokee Nation et al. v. Brackeen et al.,
No. 21–378, Texas v. Haaland, Secretary of the Interior, et al., and No.
21–380, Brackeen et al. v. Haaland, Secretary of the Interior, et al., also
on certiorari to the same court.
256 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Syllabus

The tribe thus can sometimes enforce ICWA's placement preferences
against the wishes of one or both biological parents, even after the child
is living with a new family. Finally, the States must keep certain rec-
ords related to child placements, see § 1915(e), and transmit to the Secre-
tary of the Interior all fnal adoption decrees and other specifed infor-
mation, see § 1951(a).
Petitioners—a birth mother, foster and adoptive parents, and the
State of Texas—fled this suit in federal court against the United States
and other federal parties. Several Indian Tribes intervened to defend
the law alongside the federal parties. Petitioners challenged ICWA as
unconstitutional on multiple grounds. They asserted that Congress
lacks authority to enact ICWA and that several of ICWA's requirements
violate the anticommandeering principle of the Tenth Amendment.
They argued that ICWA employs racial classifcations that unlawfully
hinder non-Indian families from fostering or adopting Indian children.
And they challenged § 1915(c)—the provision that allows tribes to alter
the prioritization order—on the ground that it violates the nondelega-
tion doctrine.
The District Court granted petitioners' motion for summary judgment
on their constitutional claims, and the en banc Fifth Circuit affrmed in

Page Proof Pending Publication
part and reversed in part. The Fifth Circuit concluded that ICWA does
not exceed Congress's legislative power, that § 1915(c) does not violate
the nondelegation doctrine, and that some of ICWA's placement prefer-
ences satisfy the guarantee of equal protection. The Fifth Circuit was
evenly divided as to whether ICWA's other preferences—those prioritiz-
ing “other Indian families” and “Indian foster home[s]” over non-Indian
families—unconstitutionally discriminate on the basis of race, and thus
affrmed the District Court's ruling that these preferences are unconsti-
tutional. As to petitioners' Tenth Amendment arguments, the Fifth
Circuit held that § 1912(d)'s “active efforts” requirement, § 1912(e)'s and
§ 1912(f)'s expert witness requirements, and § 1915(e)'s recordkeeping
requirement unconstitutionally commandeer the States. And because
it divided evenly with respect to other challenged provisions (§ 1912(a)'s
notice requirement, § 1915(a) and § 1915(b)'s placement preferences,
and § 1951(a)'s recordkeeping requirement), the Fifth Circuit affrmed
the District Court's holding that these requirements violate the Tenth
Amendment.
Held:
1. The Court declines to disturb the Fifth Circuit's conclusion that
ICWA is consistent with Congress's Article I authority. Pp. 272–280.
(a) The Court has characterized Congress's power to legislate with
respect to the Indian tribes as “plenary and exclusive,” United States v.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 257

Syllabus

Lara, 541 U. S. 193, 200, superseding both tribal and state authority,
Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U. S. 49, 56. The Court has traced
that power to multiple sources. First, the Indian Commerce Clause
authorizes Congress “[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian
Tribes,” U. S. Const., Art. I, § 8, cl. 3, and the Court has interpreted the
Indian Commerce Clause to reach not only trade, but also certain “In-
dian affairs,” Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico, 490 U. S. 163, 192.
The Treaty Clause provides a second source of power. The treaty
power “does not literally authorize Congress to act legislatively,” since
it is housed in Article II, but “treaties made pursuant to that power can
authorize Congress to deal with `matters' with which otherwise `Con-
gress could not deal.' ” Lara, 541 U. S., at 201. Also, principles inher-
ent in the Constitution's structure may empower Congress to act in the
feld of Indian affairs. See Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 551–552.
Finally, the “trust relationship between the United States and the In-
dian people” informs the exercise of legislative power. United States
v. Mitchell, 463 U. S. 206, 225–226. In sum, Congress's power to legis-
late with respect to Indians is well established and broad, but it is not
unbounded. It is plenary within its sphere, but even a sizeable sphere
has borders. Pp. 272–276.
(b) Petitioners contend that ICWA impermissibly treads on the
Page Proof Pending Publication
States' traditional authority over family law. But when Congress val-
idly legislates pursuant to its Article I powers, the Court “has not hesi-
tated” to fnd conficting state family law preempted, “[n]otwithstanding
the limited application of federal law in the feld of domestic relations
generally.” Ridgway v. Ridgway, 454 U. S. 46, 54. And the Court has
recognized Congress's power to displace the jurisdiction of state courts
in adoption proceedings involving Indian children. Fisher v. District
Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., 424 U. S. 382, 390 (per cu-
riam). Pp. 276–277.
(c) Petitioners contend that no source of congressional authority
authorizes Congress to regulate custody proceedings for Indian chil-
dren. They suggest that the Indian Commerce Clause, for example,
authorizes Congress to legislate only with respect to Indian tribes as
government entities, not Indians as individuals. But this Court's hold-
ing more than a century ago that “commerce with the Indian tribes,
means commerce with the individuals composing those tribes,” United
States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407, 417, renders that argument a dead end.
Petitioners also assert that ICWA takes the “commerce” out of the In-
dian Commerce Clause because “children are not commodities that can
be traded.” Brief for Individual Petitioners 16. This point, while rhe-
torically powerful, ignores the Court's precedent interpreting the Indian
Commerce Clause to encompass not only trade but also other Indian
258 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Syllabus

affairs. Petitioners next argue that ICWA cannot be authorized by
principles inherent in the Constitution's structure because those princi-
ples “extend, at most, to matters of war and peace.” Brief for Peti-
tioner Texas 28. Again, petitioners make no argument that takes this
Court's cases on their own terms. The Court has referred generally to
the powers “necessarily inherent in any Federal Government” and has
offered nonmilitary examples, such as “creating departments of Indian
affairs.” Lara, 541 U. S., at 201–202. Petitioners next observe that
ICWA does not implement a federal treaty, but Congress did not pur-
port to enact ICWA pursuant to its treaty power and the Fifth Circuit
did not uphold ICWA on that rationale. Finally, petitioners turn to
criticizing this Court's precedent as inconsistent with the Constitution's
original meaning, but they neither ask the Court to overrule the prece-
dent they criticize nor try to reconcile their approach with it. If there
are arguments that ICWA exceeds Congress's authority as precedent
stands today, petitioners do not make them here. Pp. 277–280.
2. Petitioners' anticommandeering challenges, which address three
categories of ICWA provisions, are rejected. Pp. 280–291.
(a) First, petitioners challenge certain requirements that apply in
involuntary proceedings to place a child in foster care or terminate pa-
rental rights, focusing on the requirement that an initiating party dem-
Page Proof Pending Publication
onstrate “active efforts” to keep the Indian family together. § 1912(d).
Petitioners contend this subsection directs state and local agencies to
provide extensive services to the parents of Indian children, even
though it is well established that the Tenth Amendment bars Congress
from “command[ing] the States' offcers, or those of their political subdi-
visions, to administer or enforce a federal regulatory program.” Printz
v. United States, 521 U. S. 898, 935. To succeed, petitioners must show
that § 1912(d) harnesses a State's legislative or executive authority.
But the provision applies to “[a]ny party” who initiates an involuntary
proceeding, thus sweeping in private individuals and agencies as well as
government entities. A demand that either public or private actors can
satisfy is unlikely to require the use of sovereign power. Murphy v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 584 U. S. 453, 476–477. Petition-
ers nonetheless insist that States institute the vast majority of involun-
tary proceedings. But examples of private suits are not hard to fnd.
And while petitioners treat “active efforts” as synonymous with “gov-
ernment programs,” state courts have applied the “active efforts” re-
quirement in private suits too. That is consistent with ICWA's fndings,
which describe the role that both public and private actors played in
the unjust separation of Indian children from their families and tribes.
§ 1901. Given all this, it is implausible that § 1912(d) is directed primar-
ily, much less exclusively, at the States.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 259

Syllabus

Legislation that applies “evenhandedly” to state and private actors
does not typically implicate the Tenth Amendment. Id., at 476. Peti-
tioners would distinguish the Court's precedents so holding on the
grounds that those cases addressed laws regulating a State's commer-
cial activity, while ICWA regulates a State's “core sovereign function
of protecting the health and safety of children within its borders.”
Brief for Petitioner Texas 66. This argument is presumably directed
at situations in which only the State can rescue a child from neglectful
parents. But the State is not necessarily the only option for rescue,
and § 1912(d) applies to other types of proceedings too. Petitioners do
not distinguish between these varied situations, much less isolate a do-
main in which only the State can act. If there is a core of involuntary
proceedings committed exclusively to the sovereign, Texas neither iden-
tifes its contours nor explains what § 1912(d) requires of a State in that
context. Petitioners have therefore failed to show that the “active ef-
forts” requirement commands the States to deploy their executive or
legislative power to implement federal Indian policy. And as for peti-
tioners' challenges to other provisions of § 1912—the notice require-
ment, expert witness requirement, and evidentiary standards—the
Court doubts that requirements placed on a State as litigant implicate
the Tenth Amendment. But regardless, these provisions, like § 1912(d),
Page Proof Pending Publication
apply to both private and state actors, so they too pose no anticomman-
deering problem. Pp. 281–285.
(b) Petitioners next challenge ICWA's placement preferences, set
forth in § 1915. Petitioners assert that this provision orders state agen-
cies to perform a “diligent search” for placements that satisfy ICWA's
hierarchy. Just as Congress cannot compel state offcials to search
databases to determine the lawfulness of gun sales, Printz, 521 U. S., at
902–904, petitioners argue, Congress cannot compel state offcials to
search for a federally preferred placement. As with § 1912, petitioners
have not shown that the “diligent search” requirement, which applies
to both private and public parties, demands the use of state sovereign
authority. Moreover, § 1915 does not require anyone, much less the
States, to search for alternative placements; instead, the burden is on
the tribe or other objecting party to produce a higher-ranked placement.
Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, 570 U. S. 637, 654. So, as it stands, peti-
tioners assert an anticommandeering challenge to a provision that does
not command state agencies to do anything.
State courts are a different matter. ICWA indisputably requires
them to apply the placement preferences in making custody determina-
tions. §§ 1915(a), (b). But Congress can require state courts, unlike
state executives and legislatures, to enforce federal law. See New York
v. United States, 505 U. S. 144, 178–179. Petitioners draw a distinction
260 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Syllabus

between requiring state courts to entertain federal causes of action and
requiring them to apply federal law to state causes of action, but this
argument runs counter to the Supremacy Clause. When Congress
enacts a valid statute, “state law is naturally preempted to the extent
of any confict with a federal statute.” Crosby v. National Foreign
Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372. That a federal law modifes a state-
law cause of action does not limit its preemptive effect. See, e. g., Hill-
man v. Maretta, 569 U. S. 483, 493–494 (federal law establishing order
of precedence for life insurance benefciaries preempted state law).
Pp. 285–287.
(c) Finally, petitioners insist that Congress cannot force state
courts to maintain or transmit records of custody proceedings involving
Indian children. But the anticommandeering doctrine applies “distinc-
tively” to a state court's adjudicative responsibilities. Printz, 521 U. S.,
at 907. The Constitution allows Congress to require “state judges to
enforce federal prescriptions, insofar as those prescriptions relat[e] to
matters appropriate for the judicial power.” Ibid. (emphasis deleted).
In Printz, the Court indicated that this principle may extend to tasks
that are “ancillary” to a “quintessentially adjudicative task”—such as
“recording, registering, and certifying” documents. Id., at 908, n. 2.
Printz described numerous historical examples of Congress imposing
Page Proof Pending Publication
recordkeeping and reporting requirements on state courts. These
early congressional enactments demonstrate that the Constitution does
not prohibit the Federal Government from imposing adjudicative tasks
on state courts. Bowsher v. Synar, 478 U. S. 714, 723. The Court now
confrms what Printz suggested: Congress may impose ancillary record-
keeping requirements related to state-court proceedings without violat-
ing the Tenth Amendment. Here, ICWA's recordkeeping requirements
are comparable to the historical examples. The duties ICWA imposes
are “ancillary” to the state court's obligation to conduct child custody
proceedings in compliance with ICWA. Printz, 521 U. S., at 908, n. 2.
Pp. 287–291.
3. The Court does not reach the merits of petitioners' two additional
claims—an equal protection challenge to ICWA's placement preferences
and a nondelegation challenge to § 1915(c), the provision allowing tribes
to alter the placement preferences—because no party before the Court
has standing to raise them. Pp. 291–296.
(a) The individual petitioners argue that ICWA's hierarchy of pref-
erences injures them by placing them on unequal footing with Indian
parents who seek to adopt or foster an Indian child. But the individual
petitioners have not shown that this injury is “likely” to be “redressed
by judicial relief.” TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594 U. S. 413, 423.
They seek an injunction preventing the federal parties from enforcing
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 261

Syllabus

ICWA and a declaratory judgment that the challenged provisions are
unconstitutional. Yet enjoining the federal parties would not remedy
the alleged injury, because state courts apply the placement preferences,
and state agencies carry out the court-ordered placements. §§ 1903(1),
1915(a), (b). The state offcials who implement ICWA are “not parties
to the suit, and there is no reason they should be obliged to honor an
incidental legal determination the suit produced.” Lujan v. Defenders
of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 569 (plurality opinion). Petitioners' request
for a declaratory judgment suffers from the same faw. The individual
petitioners insist that state courts are likely to defer to a federal court's
interpretation of federal law, thus giving rise to a substantial likelihood
that a favorable judgment will redress their injury. But such a theory
would mean redressability would be satisfed whenever a decision might
persuade actors who are not before the court—contrary to Article III's
strict prohibition on “issuing advisory opinions.” Carney v. Adams,
592 U. S. 53, 58. It is a federal court's judgment, not its opinion, that
remedies an injury. The individual petitioners can hope for nothing
more than an opinion, so they cannot satisfy Article III. Pp. 292–294.
(b) Texas has no equal protection rights of its own, South Carolina
v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 323, and it cannot assert equal protection
claims on behalf of its citizens against the Federal Government, Alfred
Page Proof Pending Publication
L. Snapp & Son, Inc. v. Puerto Rico ex rel. Barez, 458 U. S. 592, 610,
n. 16. The State's creative arguments for why it has standing despite
these settled rules also fail. Texas's argument that ICWA requires it
to “break its promise to its citizens that it will be colorblind in child-
custody proceedings,” Reply Brief for Texas 15, is not the kind of “con-
crete” and “particularized” “invasion of a legally protected interest”
necessary to demonstrate an injury in fact, Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560.
Texas also claims a direct pocketbook injury associated with the costs
of keeping records, providing notice in involuntary proceedings, and pro-
ducing expert testimony before moving a child to foster care or termi-
nating parental rights. But these alleged costs are not “fairly trace-
able” to the placement preferences, which “operate independently” of
the provisions Texas identifes. California v. Texas, 593 U. S. –––, –––.
Texas would continue to incur the complained-of costs even if it were
relieved of the duty to apply the placement preferences. Because Texas
is not injured by the placement preferences, neither would it be injured
by a tribal resolution that altered those preferences pursuant to
§ 1915(c). Texas therefore does not have standing to bring either its
equal protection or its nondelegation claims. And although the individ-
ual petitioners join Texas's nondelegation challenge to § 1915(c), they
raise no independent arguments about why they would have standing
to bring this claim. Pp. 294–296.
262 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Syllabus

994 F. 3d 249, affrmed in part, reversed in part, vacated and remanded
in part.

Barrett, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts,
C. J., and Sotomayor, Kagan, Gorsuch, Kavanaugh, and Jackson, JJ.,
joined. Gorsuch, J., fled a concurring opinion, in which Sotomayor and
Jackson, JJ., joined as to Parts I and III, post, p. 297. Kavanaugh, J.,
fled a concurring opinion, post, p. 333. Thomas, J., post, p. 334, and
Alito, J., post, p. 372, fled dissenting opinions.

Matthew D. McGill argued the cause for Chad Everet
Brackeen et al. in all cases. With him on the briefs were
Lochlan F. Shelfer, Aaron Smith, Ashley E. Johnson, and
Mark D. Fiddler.
Judd E. Stone II, Solicitor General of Texas, argued the
cause for Texas. With him on the briefs in No. 21–378 were
Ken Paxton, Attorney General of Texas, Brent Webster,
First Assistant Attorney General, Lanora C. Pettit, Princi-
pal Deputy Solicitor General, and Kathryn M. Cherry and
Page Proof Pending Publication
Beth Klusmann, Assistant Solicitors General.
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause for
the federal parties. With him on the brief were Solicitor
General Prelogar, Assistant Attorney General Kim, Freder-
ick Liu, Chr istopher G. Michel, Samuel C. Alexander,
Amber Blaha, Rachel Heron, and Samuel R. Bagenstos.
Ian Heath Gershengorn argued the cause for tribal par-
ties. With him on the brief were Keith M. Harper, Matthew
S. Hellman, Zachary C. Schauf, Leonard R. Powell, Kathryn
E. Fort, David A. Strauss, Sarah M. Konsky, Adam H.
Charnes, Rob Roy Smith, Jeffrey L. Fisher, Ephraim A. Mc-
Dowell, Paul Spruhan, Louis Mallette, and Sage Metoxen.†

†A brief of amicus curiae urging reversal in No. 21–378 was fled for
the New Civil Liberties Alliance by Richard A. Samp, Brian Rosner, and
Mark S. Chenoweth.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in part and affrmance in part in
all cases were fled for the National Indigenous Women's Resource Center
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 263

Opinion of the Court

Justice Barrett delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is about children who are among the most vul-
nerable: those in the child welfare system. In the usual

et al. by Mary Kathryn Nagle; and for 87 Members of Congress by Alan
E. Schoenfeld.
A brief of amici curiae urging affrmance in all cases was fled for the
American Civil Liberties Union et al. by Kathleen R. Hartnett, Adam
S. Gershenson, David D. Cole, Jennesa Calvo-Friedman, Elizabeth Gill,
Stephen Koteff, Jared G. Keenan, Benjamin Rundall, Zachary L. Heiden,
Randy A. Bauman, and Megan Lambert.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in part and reversal in part in
all cases were fled for the State of California et al. by Rob Bonta, Attor-
ney General of California, Michael J. Mongan, Solicitor General, Michael
L. Newman, Senior Assistant Attorney General, Joshua Patashnik, Dep-
uty Solicitor General, Nicole Welindt, Associate Deputy Solicitor General,
James F. Zahradka II, Supervising Deputy Attorney General, and Chris-
tina M. Riehl, Deputy Attorney General, by Matthew J. Platkin, Acting
Attorney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys General for their
respective jurisdictions as follows: Mark Brnovich of Arizona, Philip J.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Karl A. Racine of the
District of Columbia, Lawrence G. Wasden of Idaho, Kwame Raoul of Illi-
nois, Tom Miller of Iowa, Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Maura Healey of
Massachusetts, Dana Nessel of Michigan, Keith Ellison of Minnesota,
Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Hector Balderas of New Mexico, Letitia James
of New York, Joshua H. Stein of North Carolina, Ellen F. Rosenblum of
Oregon, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island,
Mark A. Vargo of South Dakota, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Robert W. Fergu-
son of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of Wisconsin; for the American
Historical Association et al. by Z. W. Julius Chen, Pratik A. Shah, and
Amanda L. WhiteEagle; for the Citizens Equal Rights Foundation by
Lawrence A. Kogan; and for the Project on Fair Representation by J.
Michael Connolly and Cameron T. Norris.
Briefs of amici curiae were fled in all cases for the State of Ohio et al.
by Dave Yost, Attorney General of Ohio, Benjamin M. Flowers, Solicitor
General, Michael J. Hendershot, Chief Deputy Solicitor General, and
Zachery Keller and Sylvia May Mailman, Deputy Solicitors General, and
by John M. O'Connor, Attorney General of Oklahoma; for Los Angeles
County by Kim Nemoy and Melania Vartanian; for the Academy of Adop-
tion and Assisted Reproduction Attorneys et al. by Larry S. Jenkins, Philip
J. McCarthy, Jr., Mary Beck, and Laura Beck Wilkinson; for Administra-
264 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

course, state courts apply state law when placing children in
foster or adoptive homes. But when the child is an Indian,
a federal statute—the Indian Child Welfare Act—governs.
Among other things, this law requires a state court to place
an Indian child with an Indian caretaker, if one is available.
That is so even if the child is already living with a non-Indian
family and the state court thinks it in the child's best interest
to stay there.
Before us, a birth mother, foster and adoptive parents, and
the State of Texas challenge the Act on multiple constitu-
tional grounds. They argue that it exceeds federal author-
ity, infringes state sovereignty, and discriminates on the
basis of race. The United States, joined by several Indian
Tribes, defends the law. The issues are complicated—so for
the details, read on. But the bottom line is that we reject
all of petitioners' challenges to the statute, some on the mer-
its and others for lack of standing.

Page Proof Pending Publication
tive Law Professors et al. by David S. Coale; for the American Academy
of Pediatrics et al. by Keith Bradley; for the American Bar Association by
Geoffrey D. Strommer, Deborah Enix-Ross, Caroline P. Mayhew, Kaitlyn
E. Klass, and Gregory A. Smith; for the American Psychological Associa-
tion et al. by Beth S. Brinkmann, Daniel G. Randolph, and Deanne M.
Ottaviano; for Casey Family Programs et al. by Hyland Hunt, Ruthanne
M. Deutsch, Alexandra Mansbach, and Martin Guggenheim; for the
Christian Alliance for Indian Child Welfare et al. by Krystal B. Swendsboe
and Stephen J. Obermeier; for the Constitutional Accountability Center by
Elizabeth B. Wydra and Brianne J. Gorod; for Family Defense Providers
by Charles A. Rothfeld; for Former Foster Children by Rebecca A. Patter-
son, Colin C. Hampson, and Frank S. Holleman IV; for Foster Parents
et al. by Oliver J. Dunford, Jeremy Talcott, Daniel Ortner, and Aditya
Dynar; for the Goldwater Institute et al. by Timothy Sandefur and Robert
Henneke; for Indian Law Professors by April Youpee-Roll and Matthew
L. M. Fletcher; for the National Association of Counsel for Children et al.
by Kathryn A. Eidmann, Tara Ford, and Kim Dvorchak; for Gregory
Ablavsky by Michelle T. Miano; for Sen. James Abourezk by Daniel
P. Sheehan; for Robyn Bradshaw by Conor D. Tucker, Steffen N. Johnson,
and Shannon E. Smith; for Aubrey Nelson et al. by April E. Olson and
Glennas'ba Augborne Arents; and for 497 Indian Tribes et al. by John E.
Echohawk, Erin C. Doughtery Lynch, and Samuel F. Daughety.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 265

Opinion of the Court

I
A
In 1978, Congress enacted the Indian Child Welfare Act
(ICWA) out of concern that “an alarmingly high percentage
of Indian families are broken up by the removal, often un-
warranted, of their children from them by nontribal public
and private agencies.” 92 Stat. 3069, 25 U. S. C. § 1901(4).
Congress found that many of these children were being
“placed in non-Indian foster and adoptive homes and institu-
tions,” and that the States had contributed to the problem by
“fail[ing] to recognize the essential tribal relations of Indian
people and the cultural and social standards prevailing in
Indian communities and families.” §§ 1901(4), (5). This
harmed not only Indian parents and children, but also Indian
tribes. As Congress put it, “there is no resource that is
more vital to the continued existence and integrity of Indian
tribes than their children.” § 1901(3). Testifying before
Page Proof Pending Publication
Congress, the Tribal Chief of the Mississippi Band of Choc-
taw Indians was blunter: “Culturally, the chances of Indian
survival are signifcantly reduced if our children, the only
real means for the transmission of the tribal heritage, are to
be raised in non-Indian homes and denied exposure to the
ways of their People.” Hearings on S. 1214 before the Sub-
committee on Indian Affairs and Public Lands of the House
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, 95th Cong., 2d
Sess., 193 (1978).
The Act thus aims to keep Indian children connected to
Indian families. “Indian child” is defned broadly to include
not only a child who is “a member of an Indian tribe,” but
also one who is “eligible for membership in an Indian tribe
and is the biological child of a member of an Indian tribe.”
§ 1903(4). If the Indian child lives on a reservation, ICWA
grants the tribal court exclusive jurisdiction over all child
custody proceedings, including adoptions and foster care pro-
ceedings. § 1911(a). For other Indian children, state and
266 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

tribal courts exercise concurrent jurisdiction, although the
state court is sometimes required to transfer the case to
tribal court. § 1911(b). When a state court adjudicates the
proceeding, ICWA governs from start to fnish. That is true
regardless of whether the proceeding is “involuntary” (one
to which the parents do not consent) or “voluntary” (one to
which they do).
Involuntary proceedings are subject to especially strin-
gent safeguards. See 25 CFR § 23.104 (2022); 81 Fed. Reg.
38832–38836 (2016). Any party who initiates an “involun-
tary proceeding” in state court to place an Indian child
in foster care or terminate parental rights must “notify the
parent or Indian custodian and the Indian child's tribe.”
§ 1912(a). The parent or custodian and tribe have the right
to intervene in the proceedings; the right to request extra
time to prepare for the proceedings; the right to “examine
all reports or other documents fled with the court”; and, for
Page Proof Pending Publication
indigent parents or custodians, the right to court-appointed
counsel. §§ 1912(a), (b), (c). The party attempting to termi-
nate parental rights or remove an Indian child from an un-
safe environment must frst “satisfy the court that active ef-
forts have been made to provide remedial services and
rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of
the Indian family and that these efforts have proved unsuc-
cessful.” § 1912(d). Even then, the court cannot order a
foster care placement unless it fnds “by clear and convincing
evidence, including testimony of qualifed expert witnesses,
that the continued custody of the child by the parent or In-
dian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or phys-
ical damage to the child.” § 1912(e). To terminate parental
rights, the court must make the same fnding “beyond a rea-
sonable doubt.” § 1912(f).
The Act applies to voluntary proceedings too. Relin-
quishing a child temporarily (to foster care) or permanently
(to adoption) is a grave act, and a state court must ensure
that a consenting parent or custodian knows and understands
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 267

Opinion of the Court

“the terms and consequences.” § 1913(a). Notably, a bio-
logical parent who voluntarily gives up an Indian child can-
not necessarily choose the child's foster or adoptive parents.
The child's tribe has “a right to intervene at any point in [a]
proceeding” to place a child in foster care or terminate pa-
rental rights, as well as a right to collaterally attack the
state court's decree. §§ 1911(c), 1914. As a result, the tribe
can sometimes enforce ICWA's placement preferences
against the wishes of one or both biological parents, even
after the child is living with a new family. See Mississippi
Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfeld, 490 U. S. 30, 49–52
(1989).
ICWA's placement preferences, which apply to all custody
proceedings involving Indian children, are hierarchical: State
courts may only place the child with someone in a lower-
ranked group when there is no available placement in a
higher-ranked group. For adoption, “a preference shall be
Page Proof Pending Publication
given” to placements with “(1) a member of the child's ex-
tended family; (2) other members of the Indian child's tribe;
or (3) other Indian families.” § 1915(a). For foster care, a
preference is given to (1) “the Indian child's extended fam-
ily”; (2) “a foster home licensed, approved, or specifed by the
Indian child's tribe”; (3) “an Indian foster home licensed or
approved by an authorized non-Indian licensing authority”;
and then (4) another institution “approved by an Indian tribe
or operated by an Indian organization which has a program
suitable to meet the Indian child's needs.” § 1915(b). For
purposes of the placement preferences, an “Indian” is “any
person who is a member of an Indian tribe,” and an “Indian
organization” is “any group . . . owned or controlled by Indi-
ans.” §§ 1903(3), (7). Together, these defnitions mean that
Indians from any tribe (not just the tribe to which the child
has a tie) outrank unrelated non-Indians for both adoption
and foster care. And for foster care, institutions run or
approved by any tribe outrank placements with unrelated
non-Indian families. Courts must adhere to the placement
268 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

preferences absent “good cause” to depart from them.
§§ 1915(a), (b).
The child's tribe may pass a resolution altering the priori-
tization order. § 1915(c). If it does, “the agency or court
effecting the placement shall follow such order so long as the
placement is the least restrictive setting appropriate to the
particular needs of the child.” Ibid. So long as the “least
restrictive setting” condition is met, the preferences of the
Indian child or her parent cannot trump those set by statute
or tribal resolution. But, “[w]here appropriate, the prefer-
ence of the Indian child or parent shall be considered” in
making a placement. Ibid.
The State must record each placement, including a descrip-
tion of the efforts made to comply with ICWA's order of pref-
erences. § 1915(e). Both the Secretary of the Interior and
the child's tribe have the right to request the record at any
time. Ibid. State courts must also transmit all fnal adop-
tion decrees and specifed information about adoption pro-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ceedings to the Secretary. § 1951(a).

B
This case arises from three separate child custody pro-
ceedings governed by ICWA.

1
A. L. M. was placed in foster care with Chad and Jennifer
Brackeen when he was 10 months old. Because his biologi-
cal mother is a member of the Navajo Nation and his biologi-
cal father is a member of the Cherokee Nation, he falls
within ICWA's defnition of an “Indian child.” Both the
Brackeens and A. L. M.'s biological parents live in Texas.
After A. L. M. had lived with the Brackeens for more than
a year, they sought to adopt him. A. L. M.'s biological
mother, father, and grandmother all supported the adoption.
The Navajo and Cherokee Nations did not. Pursuant to an
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 269

Opinion of the Court

agreement between the Tribes, the Navajo Nation desig-
nated A. L. M. as a member and informed the state court
that it had located a potential alternative placement with non-
relative tribal members living in New Mexico. ICWA's place-
ment preferences ranked the proposed Navajo family ahead
of non-Indian families like the Brackeens. See § 1915(a).
The Brackeens tried to convince the state court that there
was “good cause” to deviate from ICWA's preferences.
They presented favorable testimony from A. L. M.'s court-
appointed guardian and from a psychological expert who de-
scribed the strong emotional bond between A. L. M. and his
foster parents. A. L. M.'s biological parents and grand-
mother also testifed, urging the court to allow A. L. M. to
remain with the Brackeens, “ `the only parents [A. L. M.]
knows.' ” App. 96.
The court denied the adoption petition, and the Texas De-
partment of Family and Protective Services announced its
intention to move A. L. M. from the Brackeens' home to New
Page Proof Pending Publication
Mexico. In response, the Brackeens obtained an emergency
stay of the transfer and fled this lawsuit. The Navajo fam-
ily then withdrew from consideration, and the Brackeens f-
nalized their adoption of A. L. M.
The Brackeens now seek to adopt A. L. M.'s biological sis-
ter, Y. R. J., again over the opposition of the Navajo Nation.
And while the Brackeens hope to foster and adopt other In-
dian children in the future, their fraught experience with
A. L. M.'s adoption makes them hesitant to do so.

2
Altagracia Hernandez chose Nick and Heather Libretti as
adoptive parents for her newborn daughter, Baby O. The
Librettis took Baby O. home from the hospital when she was
three days old, and Hernandez, who lived nearby, visited-
Baby O. frequently. Baby O.'s biological father visited only
once but supported the adoption.
270 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

Hernandez is not an Indian. But Baby O.'s biological fa-
ther is descended from members of the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo
Tribe, and the Tribe enrolled Baby O. as a member. As a
result, the adoption proceeding was governed by ICWA.
The Tribe exercised its right to intervene and argued, over
Hernandez's objection, that Baby O. should be moved from
the Librettis' home in Nevada to the Tribe's reservation in
El Paso, Texas. It presented a number of potential place-
ments on the reservation for Baby O., and state offcials
began to investigate them. After Hernandez and the Li-
brettis joined this lawsuit, however, the Tribe withdrew its
challenge to the adoption, and the Librettis fnalized their
adoption of Baby O. The Librettis stayed in the litigation
because they planned to foster and possibly adopt Indian
children in the future.
3
Jason and Danielle Clifford, who live in Minnesota, fos-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tered Child P., whose maternal grandmother belongs to the
White Earth Band of Ojibwe Tribe. When Child P. entered
state custody around the age of three, her mother informed
the court that ICWA did not apply because Child P. was not
eligible for tribal membership. The Tribe wrote a letter to
the court confrming the same.
After two years in the foster care system, Child P. was
placed with the Cliffords, who eventually sought to adopt
her. The Tribe intervened in the proceedings and, with
no explanation for its change in position, informed the
court that Child P. was in fact eligible for tribal member-
ship. Later, the Tribe announced that it had enrolled Child
P. as a member. To comply with ICWA, Minnesota placed
Child P. with her maternal grandmother, who had lost
her foster license due to a criminal conviction. The Clif-
fords continued to pursue the adoption, but, citing ICWA, the
court denied their motion. Like the other families, the Clif-
fords intend to foster or adopt Indian children in the future.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 271

Opinion of the Court

C
The Brackeens, the Librettis, Hernandez, and the Cliffords
(whom we will refer to collectively as the “individual peti-
tioners”) fled this suit in federal court against the United
States, the Department of the Interior and its Secretary, the
Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and its Director, and the De-
partment of Health and Human Services and its Secretary
(whom we will refer to collectively as the “federal parties”).
The individual petitioners were joined by the States of
Texas, Indiana, and Louisiana—although only Texas contin-
ues to challenge ICWA before this Court. Several Indian
Tribes intervened to defend the law alongside the federal
parties.
Petitioners challenged ICWA as unconstitutional on multi-
ple grounds. They asserted that Congress lacks authority
to enact ICWA and that several of ICWA's requirements vio-
late the anticommandeering principle of the Tenth Amend-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ment. They argued that ICWA employs racial classifca-
tions that unlawfully hinder non-Indian families from
fostering or adopting Indian children. And they challenged
§ 1915(c)—the provision that allows tribes to alter the priori-
tization order—on the ground that it violates the non-
delegation doctrine.1
The District Court granted petitioners' motion for sum-
mary judgment on their constitutional claims, and a divided
panel of the Fifth Circuit reversed. Brackeen v. Bernhardt,
937 F. 3d 406 (2019). After rehearing the case en banc, the
Fifth Circuit affrmed in part and reversed in part. 994
F. 3d 249 (2021) (per curiam). The en banc court concluded
that ICWA does not exceed Congress's legislative power,
that § 1915(c) does not violate the nondelegation doctrine,

1
Petitioners raised several other challenges that are not before this
Court, including that ICWA's implementing regulations are arbitrary and
capricious in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act.
272 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

and that some of ICWA's placement preferences satisfy the
guarantee of equal protection. Id., at 267–269. The court
was evenly divided as to whether ICWA's other prefer-
ences—those prioritizing “other Indian families” and “Indian
foster home[s]” over non-Indian families—unconstitutionally
discriminate on the basis of race. Id., at 268. The Fifth
Circuit therefore affrmed the District Court's ruling that
these preferences are unconstitutional.
Petitioners' Tenth Amendment arguments effectively suc-
ceeded across the board. The Fif th Circuit held that
§ 1912(d)'s “active efforts” requirement, § 1912(e)'s and
§ 1912(f)'s expert witness requirements, and § 1915(e)'s rec-
ordkeeping requirement unconstitutionally commandeer the
States. Ibid. It divided evenly with respect to the other
provisions that petitioners challenge here: § 1912(a)'s notice
requirement, § 1915(a) and § 1915(b)'s placement preferences,
and § 1951(a)'s recordkeeping requirement. Ibid. So the
Fifth Circuit affrmed the District Court's holding that these
Page Proof Pending Publication
requirements, too, violate the Tenth Amendment.
We granted certiorari.2 595 U. S. ––– (2022).
II
A
We begin with petitioners' claim that ICWA exceeds Con-
gress's power under Article I. In a long line of cases, we
have characterized Congress's power to legislate with re-
spect to the Indian tribes as “ `plenary and exclusive.' ”
United States v. Lara, 541 U. S. 193, 200 (2004); South Da-
kota v. Yankton Sioux Tribe, 522 U. S. 329, 343 (1998) (“Con-
gress possesses plenary power over Indian affairs”); Wash-
ington v. Confederated Bands and Tribes of Yakima Nation,
2
Hernandez and the families, the State of Texas, the federal parties, and
the Tribes all fled cross-petitions for certiorari. After the cases were
consolidated, Hernandez, the families, and Texas proceeded as petitioners
before this Court, and the federal parties and the Tribes proceeded as
respondents.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 273

Opinion of the Court

439 U. S. 463, 470 (1979) (Congress exercises “plenary and
exclusive power over Indian affairs”); Winton v. Amos, 255
U. S. 373, 391 (1921) (“It is thoroughly established that Con-
gress has plenary authority over the Indians and all their
tribal relations”); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553, 565
(1903) (“Congress possesse[s] a paramount power over the
property of the Indians”); Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174
U. S. 445, 478 (1899) (“Congress possesses plenary power of
legislation in regard to” the Indian tribes). Our cases leave
little doubt that Congress's power in this feld is muscular,
superseding both tribal and state authority. Santa Clara
Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U. S. 49, 56 (1978) (“Congress has
plenary authority to limit, modify or eliminate the powers of
local self-government which the tribes otherwise possess”);
Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 340, 353 (1908) (“Congress
has power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, and
such power is superior and paramount to the authority of
Page Proof Pending Publication
any State within whose limits are Indian tribes”).
To be clear, however, “plenary” does not mean “free-
foating.” A power unmoored from the Constitution would
lack both justifcation and limits. So like the rest of its leg-
islative powers, Congress's authority to regulate Indians
must derive from the Constitution, not the atmosphere.
Our precedent traces that power to multiple sources.
The Indian Commerce Clause authorizes Congress “[t]o
regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, § 8,
cl. 3. We have interpreted the Indian Commerce Clause to
reach not only trade, but certain “Indian affairs” too. Cot-
ton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico, 490 U. S. 163, 192 (1989).
Notably, we have declined to treat the Indian Commerce
Clause as interchangeable with the Interstate Commerce
Clause. Ibid. While under the Interstate Commerce
Clause, States retain “some authority” over trade, we have
explained that “virtually all authority over Indian commerce
and Indian tribes” lies with the Federal Government. Semi-
nole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44, 62 (1996).
274 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

The Treaty Clause—which provides that the President
“shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of
the Senate, to make Treaties”—provides a second source of
power over Indian affairs. Art. II, § 2, cl. 2. Until the late
19th century, relations between the Federal Government and
the Indian tribes were governed largely by treaties. Lara,
541 U. S., at 201. Of course, the treaty power “does not lit-
erally authorize Congress to act legislatively,” since it is
housed in Article II rather than Article I. Ibid. Neverthe-
less, we have asserted that “treaties made pursuant to that
power can authorize Congress to deal with `matters' with
which otherwise `Congress could not deal.' ” Ibid. And
even though the United States formally ended the practice
of entering into new treaties with the Indian tribes in 1871,
this decision did not limit Congress's power “to legislate on
problems of Indians” pursuant to pre-existing treaties. An-
toine v. Washington, 420 U. S. 194, 203 (1975) (emphasis
Page Proof Pending Publication
deleted).
We have also noted that principles inherent in the Consti-
tution's structure empower Congress to act in the feld of
Indian affairs. See Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 551–
552 (1974) (“The plenary power of Congress to deal with the
special problems of Indians is drawn both explicitly and im-
plicitly from the Constitution itself ”). At the founding, “ `In-
dian affairs were more an aspect of military and foreign pol-
icy than a subject of domestic or municipal law.' ” Lara, 541
U. S., at 201. With this in mind, we have posited that Con-
gress's legislative authority might rest in part on “the Con-
stitution's adoption of preconstitutional powers necessarily
inherent in any Federal Government, namely, powers that
this Court has described as `necessary concomitants of na-
tionality.' ” Ibid. (quoting United States v. Curtiss-Wright
Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 315–322 (1936)).
Finally, the “trust relationship between the United States
and the Indian people” informs the exercise of legislative
power. United States v. Mitchell, 463 U. S. 206, 225–226
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 275

Opinion of the Court

(1983). As we have explained, the Federal Government has
“ `charged itself with moral obligations of the highest respon-
sibility and trust' ” toward Indian tribes. United States v.
Jicarilla Apache Nation, 564 U. S. 162, 176 (2011); Seminole
Nation v. United States, 316 U. S. 286, 296 (1942) (“[T]his
Court has recognized the distinctive obligation of trust in-
cumbent upon the Government in its dealings with these
dependent and sometimes exploited people”). The contours
of this “special relationship” are undefned. Mancari, 417
U. S., at 552.
In sum, Congress's power to legislate with respect to Indi-
ans is well established and broad. Consistent with that
breadth, we have not doubted Congress's ability to legislate
across a wide range of areas, including criminal law, domestic
violence, employment, property, tax, and trade. See, e. g.,
Lara, 541 U. S., at 210 (law allowing tribes to prosecute non-
member Indians who committed crimes on tribal land);
Page Proof Pending Publication
United States v. Bryant, 579 U. S. 140, 142–143 (2016) (law
criminalizing domestic violence in Indian country); Mancari,
417 U. S., at 537 (policy granting Indians employment prefer-
ences); United States v. Antelope, 430 U. S. 641, 648 (1977)
(law establishing a criminal code for Indian country); Yank-
ton Sioux Tribe, 522 U. S., at 343 (law altering the bound-
aries of a reservation); Sunderland v. United States, 266
U. S. 226, 231–232 (1924) (agency action removing the restric-
tions on alienation of a homestead allotted to an Indian);
Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 380 U. S.
685, 691, n. 18 (1965) (law granting tribe immunity from state
taxation); United States v. Algoma Lumber Co., 305 U. S.
415, 417, 421 (1939) (law regulating the sale of timber by an
Indian tribe). Indeed, we have only rarely concluded that a
challenged statute exceeded Congress's power to regulate
Indian affairs. See, e. g., Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 72–73.
Admittedly, our precedent is unwieldy, because it rarely
ties a challenged statute to a specifc source of constitutional
authority. That makes it diffcult to categorize cases and
276 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

even harder to discern the limits on Congress's power. Still,
we have never wavered in our insistence that Congress's In-
dian affairs power “ `is not absolute.' ” Delaware Tribal
Business Comm. v. Weeks, 430 U. S. 73, 84 (1977); United
States v. Alcea Band of Tillamooks, 329 U. S. 40, 54 (1946)
(“The power of Congress over Indian affairs may be of a
plenary nature; but it is not absolute”); United States v.
Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 103, 110 (1935) (plenary power is
“subject to limitations inhering in such a guardianship and
to pertinent constitutional restrictions”). It could not be
otherwise—Article I gives Congress a series of enumerated
powers, not a series of blank checks. Thus, we reiterate
that Congress's authority to legislate with respect to Indians
is not unbounded. It is plenary within its sphere, but even
a sizeable sphere has borders.3

B

Page Proof
Petitioners Pending
contend that ICWA exceeds Publication
Congress's power.
Their principal theory, and the one accepted by both Justice
Alito and the dissenters in the Fifth Circuit, is that ICWA
treads on the States' authority over family law. Domestic
relations have traditionally been governed by state law;
thus, federal power over Indians stops where state power
over the family begins. Or so the argument goes.
It is true that Congress lacks a general power over domes-
tic relations, In re Burrus, 136 U. S. 586, 593–594 (1890), and,
as a result, responsibility for regulating marriage and child
custody remains primarily with the States, Sosna v. Iowa,
419 U. S. 393, 404 (1975). See also Moore v. Sims, 442 U. S.
3
Justice Alito’s dissent criticizes the Court for “violating one of the
most basic laws of logic” with our conclusion that “Congress's power over
Indian affairs is `plenary' but not `absolute.' ” Post, at 374. Yet the
dissent goes on to make that very same observation. Ibid. (“[E]ven
so-called plenary powers cannot override foundational constitutional
constraints”).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 277

Opinion of the Court

415, 435 (1979). But the Constitution does not erect a fre-
wall around family law. On the contrary, when Congress
validly legislates pursuant to its Article I powers, we “ha[ve]
not hesitated” to fnd conficting state family law preempted,
“[n]otwithstanding the limited application of federal law in
the feld of domestic relations generally.” Ridgway v. Ridg-
way, 454 U. S. 46, 54 (1981) (federal law providing life insur-
ance preempted state family-property law); see also Hillman
v. Maretta, 569 U. S. 483, 491 (2013) (“state laws `governing
the economic aspects of domestic relations . . . must give
way to clearly conficting federal enactments' ” (alteration in
original)). In fact, we have specifcally recognized Con-
gress's power to displace the jurisdiction of state courts in
adoption proceedings involving Indian children. Fisher v.
District Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., 424 U. S.
382, 390 (1976) (per curiam).
Petitioners are trying to turn a general observation (that
Congress's Article I powers rarely touch state family law)
Page Proof Pending Publication
into a constitutional carveout (that family law is wholly ex-
empt from federal regulation). That argument is a non-
starter. As James Madison said to Members of the First
Congress, when the Constitution conferred a power on Con-
gress, “they might exercise it, although it should interfere
with the laws, or even the Constitution of the States.” 2
Annals of Cong. 1897 (1791). Family law is no exception.

C
Petitioners come at the problem from the opposite direc-
tion too: Even if there is no family law carveout to the Indian
affairs power, they contend that Congress's authority does
not stretch far enough to justify ICWA. Ticking through
the various sources of power, petitioners assert that the Con-
stitution does not authorize Congress to regulate custody
proceedings for Indian children. Their arguments fail to
grapple with our precedent, and because they bear the bur-
278 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

den of establishing ICWA's unconstitutionality, we cannot
sustain their challenge to the law. See Lujan v. G & G Fire
Sprinklers, Inc., 532 U. S. 189, 198 (2001).
Take the Indian Commerce Clause, which is petitioners'
primary focus. According to petitioners, the Clause author-
izes Congress to legislate only with respect to Indian tribes
as government entities, not Indians as individuals. Brief for
Individual Petitioners 47–50. But we held more than a cen-
tury ago that “commerce with the Indian tribes, means com-
merce with the individuals composing those tribes.” United
States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407, 416–417 (1866) (law prohibit-
ing the sale of alcohol to Indians in Indian country); United
States v. Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 600 (1916) (same). So that ar-
gument is a dead end.
Petitioners also assert that ICWA takes the “commerce”
out of the Indian Commerce Clause. Their consistent re-
frain is that “children are not commodities that can be
Page Proof Pending Publication
traded.” Brief for Individual Petitioners 16; Brief for Peti-
tioner Texas 23 (“[C]hildren are not commodities”); id., at 18
(“Children are not articles of commerce”). Rhetorically, it
is a powerful point—of course children are not commercial
products. Legally, though, it is beside the point. As we
already explained, our precedent states that Congress's
power under the Indian Commerce Clause encompasses not
only trade but also “Indian affairs.” Cotton Petroleum, 490
U. S., at 192. Even the judges who otherwise agreed with
petitioners below rejected this narrow view of the Indian
Commerce Clause as inconsistent with both our cases and
“[l]ongstanding patterns of federal legislation.” 994 F. 3d,
at 374–375 (principal opinion of Duncan, J.). Rather than
dealing with this precedent, however, petitioners virtually
ignore it.
Next, petitioners argue that ICWA cannot be authorized
by principles inherent in the Constitution's structure be-
cause those principles “extend, at most, to matters of war
and peace.” Brief for Petitioner Texas 28. But that is not
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 279

Opinion of the Court

what our cases say. We have referred generally to the pow-
ers “necessarily inherent in any Federal Government,” and
we have offered examples like “creating departments of In-
dian affairs, appointing Indian commissioners, and . . . `secur-
ing and preserving the friendship of the Indian Nations' ”—
none of which are military actions. Lara, 541 U. S., at
201–202. Once again, petitioners make no argument that
takes our cases on their own terms.
Finally, petitioners observe that ICWA does not imple-
ment a federal treaty. Brief for Petitioner Texas 24–27;
Brief for Individual Petitioners 56–58. This does not get
them very far either, since Congress did not purport to enact
ICWA pursuant to the Treaty Clause power and the Fifth
Circuit did not uphold ICWA on that rationale.
Presumably recognizing these obstacles, petitioners turn
to criticizing our precedent as inconsistent with the Constitu-
tion's original meaning. Yet here too, they offer no account
of how their argument fts within the landscape of our case
Page Proof Pending Publication
law. For instance, they neither ask us to overrule the prece-
dent they criticize nor try to reconcile their approach with
it. They are also silent about the potential consequences of
their position. Would it undermine established cases and
statutes? If so, which ones? Petitioners do not say.
We recognize that our case law puts petitioners in a dif-
fcult spot. We have often sustained Indian legislation
without specifying the source of Congress's power, and we
have insisted that Congress's power has limits without say-
ing what they are. Yet petitioners' strategy for dealing
with the confusion is not to offer a theory for rationalizing
this body of law—that would at least give us something to
work with.4 Instead, they frame their arguments as if the

4
Texas foated a theory for the frst time at oral argument. It said that,
taken together, our plenary power cases fall into three buckets: (1) those
allowing Congress to legislate pursuant to an enumerated power, such as
the Indian Commerce Clause or the Treaty Clause; (2) those allowing Con-
gress to regulate the tribes as government entities; and (3) those allowing
280 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

slate were clean. More than two centuries in, it is any-
thing but.
If there are arguments that ICWA exceeds Congress's au-
thority as our precedent stands today, petitioners do not
make them. We therefore decline to disturb the Fifth Cir-
cuit's conclusion that ICWA is consistent with Article I.

III
We now turn to petitioners' host of anticommandeering ar-
guments, which we will break into three categories. First,
petitioners challenge certain requirements that apply in in-
voluntary proceedings to place a child in foster care or termi-
nate parental rights: the requirements that an initiating
party demonstrate “active efforts” to keep the Indian family
together; serve notice of the proceeding on the parent or
Indian custodian and tribe; and demonstrate, by a heightened
burden of proof and expert testimony, that the child is likely
Page Proof Pending Publication
to suffer “serious emotional or physical damage” if the par-
ent or Indian custodian retains custody. Second, petitioners
challenge ICWA's placement preferences. They claim that
Congress can neither force state agencies to fnd preferred
placements for Indian children nor require state courts to
apply federal standards when making custody determina-
tions. Third, they insist that Congress cannot force state
courts to maintain or transmit to the Federal Government
records of custody proceedings involving Indian children.5

Congress to enact legislation that applies to federal or tribal land. Tr. of
Oral Arg. 55. According to Texas, ICWA is unconstitutional because it
does not fall within any of these categories. We have never broken down
our cases this way. But even if Texas's theory is descriptively accurate,
Texas offers no explanation for why Congress's power is limited to these
categories.
5
All petitioners argue that these provisions violate the anticomman-
deering principle. Since Texas has standing to raise these claims, we
need not address whether the individual petitioners also have standing to
do so.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 281

Opinion of the Court

A
As a reminder, “involuntary proceedings” are those to
which a parent does not consent. § 1912; 25 CFR § 23.2.
Heightened protections for parents and tribes apply in this
context, and while petitioners challenge most of them, the
“active efforts” provision is their primary target. That pro-
vision requires “[a]ny party” seeking to effect an involuntary
foster care placement or termination of parental rights to
“satisfy the court that active efforts have been made to pro-
vide remedial services and rehabilitative programs designed
to prevent the breakup of the Indian family and that these
efforts have proved unsuccessful.” § 1912(d). According to
petitioners, this subsection directs state and local agencies
to provide extensive services to the parents of Indian chil-
dren. It is well established that the Tenth Amendment bars
Congress from “command[ing] the States' offcers, or those of
their political subdivisions, to administer or enforce a federal
Page Proof Pending Publication
regulatory program.” Printz v. United States, 521 U. S.
898, 935 (1997). The “active efforts” provision, petitioners
say, does just that.
Petitioners' argument has a fundamental faw: To succeed,
they must show that § 1912(d) harnesses a State's legislative
or executive authority. But the provision applies to “[a]ny
party” who initiates an involuntary proceeding, thus sweep-
ing in private individuals and agencies as well as government
entities. A demand that either public or private actors can
satisfy is unlikely to require the use of sovereign power.
Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 584 U. S.
453, 476–477 (2018).
Notwithstanding the term “[a]ny party,” petitioners insist
that § 1912(d) is “best read” as a command to the States.
See id., at 477 (whether a federal law directly regulates the
States depends on how it is “best read”). They contend
that, as a practical matter, States—not private parties—ini-
tiate the vast majority of involuntary proceedings. Despite
282 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

the breadth of the language, the argument goes, States are
obviously the “parties” to whom the statute refers.
The record contains no evidence supporting the assertion
that States institute the vast majority of involuntary pro-
ceedings. Examples of private suits are not hard to fnd, so
we are skeptical that their number is negligible. See, e. g.,
Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, 570 U. S. 637, 644–646 (2013)
(prospective adoptive parents); In re Guardianship of Eliza
W., 304 Neb. 995, 997, 938 N. W. 2d 307, 310 (2020) (grand-
mother); In re Guardianship of J. C. D., 2004 S. D. 96, ¶4,
686 N. W. 2d 647, 648 (grandparents); In re Adoption
of T. A. W., 186 Wash. 2d 828, 835–837, 850–851, 383 P. 3d
492, 494–495, 501–502 (2016) (mother and stepfather);
J. W. v. R. J., 951 P. 2d 1206, 1212–1213 (Alaska 1998) (same).
Indeed, Texas's own family code permits certain private
parties to initiate suits for the termination of parental rights.
Tex. Fam. Code Ann. § 102.003(a) (West Cum. Supp. 2022);
see Reply Brief for Texas 27. And while petitioners treat
Page Proof Pending Publication
“active efforts” as synonymous with “government pro-
grams,” state courts have applied the “active efforts”
requirement in private suits too. See, e. g., In re Adoption
of T. A. W., 186 Wash. 2d, at 851–852, 383 P. 3d, at 502–
503; S. S. v. Stephanie H., 241 Ariz. 419, 424, 388 P. 3d 569,
574 (App. 2017); In re N. B., 199 P. 3d 16, 23–24 (Colo. App.
2007). That is consistent with ICWA's fndings, which de-
scribe the role that both public and private actors played in
the unjust separation of Indian children from their families
and tribes. § 1901. Given all this, it is implausible that
§ 1912(d) is directed primarily, much less exclusively, at the
States.6

6
To bolster their claim that the “active efforts” requirement is aimed at
the States, petitioners point to a statement from the Department of the
Interior asserting that the reference to “active efforts” refects Congress's
intent “to require States to affrmatively provide Indian families with sub-
stantive services and not merely make the services available.” 81 Fed.
Reg. 38791 (emphasis added). This statement does not move the needle.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 283

Opinion of the Court

Legislation that applies “evenhandedly” to state and pri-
vate actors does not typically implicate the Tenth Amend-
ment. Murphy, 584 U. S., at –––. In South Carolina v.
Baker, for example, we held that a generally applicable law
regulating unregistered bonds did not commandeer the
States; rather, it required States “wishing to engage in cer-
tain activity [to] take administrative and sometimes legisla-
tive action to comply with federal standards regulating that
activity.” 485 U. S. 505, 514–515 (1988). We reached a sim-
ilar conclusion in Reno v. Condon, which dealt with a statute
prohibiting state motor vehicle departments (DMVs) from
selling a driver's personal information without the driver's
consent. 528 U. S. 141, 143–144 (2000). The law regulated
not only the state DMVs, but also private parties who had
already purchased this information and sought to resell it.
Id., at 146. Applying Baker, we concluded that the Act did
not “require the States in their sovereign capacity to regu-
late their own citizens,” “enact any laws or regulations,” or
Page Proof Pending Publication
“assist in the enforcement of federal statutes regulating pri-
vate individuals.” 528 U. S., at 150–151. Instead, it per-
missibly “regulate[d] the States as the owners of data bases.”
Id., at 151.
Petitioners argue that Baker and Condon are distinguish-
able because they addressed laws regulating a State's com-
mercial activity, while ICWA regulates a State's “core sov-
ereign function of protecting the health and safety of
children within its borders.” Brief for Petitioner Texas 66.
A State can stop selling bonds or a driver's personal informa-
Neither § 1912(d) nor the regulations limit themselves to States; moreover,
the regulations plainly contemplate that services will come from private
organizations as well as the government. 25 CFR § 23.102 (“Agency
means a nonproft, for-proft, or governmental organization . . . that per-
forms, or provides services to biological parents, foster parents, or adop-
tive parents to assist in the administrative and social work necessary for
foster, preadoptive, or adoptive placements”). The Department's state-
ment is thus consistent with the plain language of § 1912, which applies to
both private and state actors.
284 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

tion, petitioners say, but it cannot withdraw from the area of
child welfare—protecting children is the business of govern-
ment, even if it is work in which private parties share. Nor,
of course, could Texas avoid ICWA by excluding only Indian
children from social services. Because States cannot exit
the feld, they are hostage to ICWA, which requires them
to implement Congress's regulatory program for the care of
Indian children and families. Id., at 64–65; Reply Brief for
Texas 27.
This argument is presumably directed at situations in
which only the State can rescue a child from neglectful par-
ents. But § 1912 applies to more than child neglect—for in-
stance, it applies when a biological mother arranges for a
private adoption without the biological father's consent.
See, e. g., Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 643–644. And even
when a child is trapped in an abusive home, the State is not
necessarily the only option for rescue—for instance, a grand-
Page Proof Pending Publication
mother can seek guardianship of a grandchild whose parents
are failing to care for her. See, e. g., In re Guardianship of
Eliza W., 304 Neb., at 996–997, 938 N. W. 2d, at 309–310.
Petitioners do not distinguish between these varied situa-
tions, much less isolate a domain in which only the State can
act. Some amici assert that, at the very least, removing
children from imminent danger in the home falls exclusively
to the government. Brief for Academy of Adoption and As-
sisted Reproduction Attorneys et al. as Amici Curiae 14
(“Amici are aware of no state in which a private actor may
lawfully remove a child from his existing home”). Maybe
so—but that does not help petitioners' commandeering argu-
ment, because the “active efforts” requirement does not
apply to emergency removals. § 1922. If ICWA comman-
deers state performance of a “core sovereign function,” peti-
tioners do not give us the details.
When a federal statute applies on its face to both private
and state actors, a commandeering argument is a heavy
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 285

Opinion of the Court

lift—and petitioners have not pulled it off. Both state and
private actors initiate involuntary proceedings. And, if
there is a core of involuntary proceedings committed exclu-
sively to the sovereign, Texas neither identifes its contours
nor explains what § 1912(d) requires of a State in that con-
text. Petitioners have therefore failed to show that the “ac-
tive efforts” requirement commands the States to deploy
their executive or legislative power to implement federal In-
dian policy.
As for petitioners' challenges to other provisions of
§ 1912—the notice requirement, expert witness requirement,
and evidentiary standards—we doubt that requirements
placed on a State as litigant implicate the Tenth Amendment.
But in any event, these provisions, like § 1912(d), apply to
both private and state actors, so they too pose no anticom-
mandeering problem.
B

Page Proof
Petitioners Pending
also raise Publication
a Tenth Amendment challenge to
§ 1915, which dictates placement preferences for Indian chil-
dren. According to petitioners, this provision orders state
agencies to perform a “diligent search” for placements that
satisfy ICWA's hierarchy. Brief for Petitioner Texas 63;
Reply Brief for Texas 24; see also Brief for Individual Pe-
titioners 67–68. Petitioners assert that the Department
of the Interior understands § 1915 this way, 25 CFR
§ 23.132(c)(5), and the Tribes who intervene in proceedings
governed by ICWA share that understanding—for example,
“the Librettis' adoption of Baby O was delayed because the
Ysleta del Sur Pueblo Tribe demanded that county offcials
exhaustively search for a placement with the Tribe frst.”
Reply Brief for Texas 24–25. Just as Congress cannot com-
pel state offcials to search databases to determine the law-
fulness of gun sales, Printz, 521 U. S., at 902–904, petitioners
argue, Congress cannot compel state offcials to search for a
federally preferred placement.
286 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

As an initial matter, this argument encounters the same
problem that plagues petitioners with respect to § 1912: Peti-
tioners have not shown that the “diligent search” require-
ment, which applies to both private and public parties, de-
mands the use of state sovereign authority. But this
argument fails for another reason too: Section 1915 does not
require anyone, much less the States, to search for alterna-
tive placements. As the United States emphasizes, petition-
ers' interpretation “cannot be squared with this Court's deci-
sion in Adoptive Couple,” which held that “ `there simply is
no “preference” to apply if no alternative party that is eligi-
ble to be preferred . . . has come forward.' ” Brief for Fed-
eral Parties 44 (quoting 570 U. S., at 654); Adoptive Couple,
570 U. S., at 654 (“§ 1915(a)'s preferences are inapplicable in
cases where no alternative party has formally sought to
adopt the child”). Instead, the burden is on the tribe or
other objecting party to produce a higher-ranked placement.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Ibid. So, as it stands, petitioners assert an anticomman-
deering challenge to a provision that does not command state
agencies to do anything.
State courts are a different matter. ICWA indisputably
requires them to apply the placement preferences in making
custody determinations. §§ 1915(a), (b). Petitioners argue
that this too violates the anticommandeering doctrine. To
be sure, they recognize that Congress can require state
courts, unlike state executives and legislatures, to enforce
federal law. See New York v. United States, 505 U. S. 144,
178–179 (1992) (“Federal statutes enforceable in state courts
do, in a sense, direct state judges to enforce them, but this
sort of federal `direction' of state judges is mandated by the
text of the Supremacy Clause”). But they draw a distinc-
tion between requiring state courts to entertain federal
causes of action and requiring them to apply federal law to
state causes of action. They claim that if state law provides
the cause of action—as Texas law does here—then the State
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 287

Opinion of the Court

gets to call the shots, unhindered by any federal instruction
to the contrary. Brief for Individual Petitioners 62–63,
66–67.
This argument runs headlong into the Constitution. The
Supremacy Clause provides that “the Laws of the United
States . . . shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the
Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in
the Constitution or Laws of any state to the Contrary not-
withstanding.” Art. VI, cl. 2. Thus, when Congress enacts
a valid statute pursuant to its Article I powers, “state law is
naturally preempted to the extent of any confict with a fed-
eral statute.” Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council,
530 U. S. 363, 372 (2000). End of story. That a federal law
modifes a state-law cause of action does not limit its preemp-
tive effect. See, e. g., Hillman, 569 U. S., at 493–494 (fed-
eral law establishing an “ `order of precedence' ” for benef-
ciaries of life insurance preempted state law); Egelhoff v.
Egelhoff, 532 U. S. 141, 151–152 (2001) (Employee Retire-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ment Income Security Act preempted state law regarding
the economic consequences of divorce); Wissner v. Wissner,
338 U. S. 655, 660–661 (1950) (federal military benefts law
preempted state community-property rules).

C
Finally, we turn to ICWA's recordkeeping provisions.
Section 1951(a) requires courts to provide the Secretary of
the Interior with a copy of the fnal order in the adoptive
placement of any Indian child. The court must also provide
“other information as may be necessary to show” the child's
name and tribal affliation, the names and addresses of the
biological parents and adoptive parents, and the identity of
any agency with information about the adoptive placement.
Section 1915(e) requires the State to “maintai[n]” a record
“evidencing the efforts to comply with the order of prefer-
ence” specifed by ICWA. The record “shall be made avail-
288 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

able at any time upon the request of the Secretary or the
Indian child's tribe.” Petitioners argue that Congress cannot
conscript the States into federal service by assigning them
recordkeeping tasks.7
The anticommandeering doctrine applies “distinctively” to
a state court's adjudicative responsibilities. Printz, 521
U. S., at 907. As we just explained, this distinction is evi-
dent in the Supremacy Clause, which refers specifcally to
state judges. Art. VI, cl. 2. From the beginning, the text
manifested in practice: As originally understood, the Consti-
tution allowed Congress to require “state judges to enforce
federal prescriptions, insofar as those prescriptions related
to matters appropriate for the judicial power.” Printz, 521
U. S., at 907 (emphasis deleted). In Printz, we indicated
that this principle may extend to tasks that are “ancillary”
to a “quintessentially adjudicative task”—such as “recording,
registering, and certifying” documents. Id., at 908, n. 2.
Petitioners reject Printz's observation, insisting that
Page Proof Pending Publication
there is a distinction between rules of decision (which state
courts must follow) and recordkeeping requirements (which
they can ignore). But Printz described numerous historical
examples of Congress imposing recordkeeping and reporting
requirements on state courts. The early Congresses passed
laws directing state courts to perform certain tasks fairly
described as “ancillary” to the courts' adjudicative duties.
For example, state courts were required to process and
record applications for United States citizenship. Act of
7
Though § 1915(e) does not specify that the records be retained by state
courts, as opposed to state agencies, context makes clear that a “record of
each such placement” refers to the state court's placement determination.
See Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfeld, 490 U. S. 30, 40,
n. 13 (1989). True, the provision leaves it up to the State whether to keep
the records with a court or agency. See 25 CFR § 23.141(c) (“The State
court or agency should notify the BIA whether these records are main-
tained within the court system or by a State agency”). But allowing the
State to make that choice does not transform the documents into some-
thing other than a court record.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 289

Opinion of the Court

Mar. 26, 1790, ch. 3, § 1, 1 Stat. 103–104. The clerk (or other
court offcial) was required “to certify and transmit” the ap-
plication to the Secretary of State, along with information
about “the name, age, nation, residence and occupation, for
the time being, of the alien.” Act of June 18, 1798, § 2,
1 Stat. 567. The clerk also had to register aliens seeking
naturalization and issue certifcates confrming the court's
receipt of the alien's request for registration. Act of
Apr. 14, 1802, § 2, 2 Stat. 155.8
Federal law imposed other duties on state courts unrelated
to immigration and naturalization. The Judiciary Act of
1789, which authorized “any justice of the peace, or other
magistrate of any of the United States,” to arrest and im-
prison federal offenders, required the judge to set bail at the
defendant's request. § 33, 1 Stat. 91. Congress also re-
quired state courts to administer oaths to prisoners, to issue
certifcates authorizing the apprehension of fugitives, and to
Page Proof Pending Publication
collect proof of the claims of Canadian refugees who had

8
Printz noted uncertainty about whether the naturalization laws ap-
plied only to States that voluntarily “authorized their courts to conduct
naturalization proceedings.” 521 U. S., at 905–906. But on their face,
these statutes did not require state consent. See Act of Mar. 26, 1790, ch.
3, § 1, 1 Stat. 103 (providing that an alien could apply for citizenship “to
any common law court of record, in any one of the states wherein he shall
have resided for the term of one year at least”); Act of Apr. 14, 1802, ch.
28, 2 Stat. 153 (referring to “the supreme, superior, district or circuit court
of some one of the states, or of the territorial districts of the United
States, or a circuit or district court of the United States”). And as Printz
recognized, this Court has never held that consent is required. 521 U. S.,
at 905–906; see Holmgren v. United States, 217 U. S. 509, 517 (1910) (hold-
ing that Congress could empower state courts to conduct naturalization
proceedings, but because California had already authorized jurisdiction,
reserving the question whether its consent was necessary); but see United
States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 520 (1883) (stating in dicta that the natural-
ization laws “could not be enforced” in state court “against the consent of
the States”). In any event, while the naturalization laws are certainly
not conclusive evidence, they are nonetheless relevant to discerning histor-
ical practice.
290 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

aided the United States in the Revolutionary War. Act of
May 5, 1792, ch. 29, § 2, 1 Stat. 266 (“any person imprisoned
. . . may have the oath or affrmation herein after expressed
administered to him by any judge of the United States, or of
the general or supreme court of law of the state in which the
debtor is imprisoned”); Act of Feb. 12, 1793, ch. 7, § 1, 1 Stat.
302 (“governor or chief magistrate of the state or territory”
shall “certif[y] as authentic” an indictment or affdavit charg-
ing a “fugitive from justice”); Act of Apr. 7, 1798, § 3, 1 Stat.
548 (“proof of the several circumstances necessary to entitle
the applicants to the benefts of this act, may be taken before
. . . a judge of the supreme or superior court, or the frst
justice or frst judge of the court of common pleas or county
court of any state”).
There is more. Shortly af ter ratification, Congress
passed a detailed statute that required state-court judges to
gather and certify reports. Act of July 20, 1790, § 3, 1 Stat.
Page Proof Pending Publication
132. The Act authorized commanders of ships to request
examinations of their vessels from any “justice of the peace
of the city, town or place.” Ibid. The judge would order
three qualifed people to prepare a report on the vessel's con-
dition, which the judge would review and “endorse.” Ibid.
Then, the judge was required to issue an order regarding
“whether the said ship or vessel is ft to proceed on the in-
tended voyage; and if not, whether such repairs can be made
or defciencies supplied where the ship or vessel then lays.”
Ibid.
These early congressional enactments “provid[e] `contem-
poraneous and weighty evidence' of the Constitution's mean-
ing.” Bowsher v. Synar, 478 U. S. 714, 723 (1986). Collec-
tively, they demonstrate that the Constitution does not
prohibit the Federal Government from imposing adjudicative
tasks on state courts. This makes sense against the back-
drop of the Madisonian Compromise: Since Article III estab-
lished only the Supreme Court and made inferior federal
courts optional, Congress could have relied almost entirely
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 291

Opinion of the Court

on state courts to apply federal law. Printz, 521 U. S.,
at 907. Had Congress taken that course, it would have had
to rely on state courts to perform adjudication-adjacent
tasks too.
We now confrm what we suggested in Printz: Congress
may impose ancillary recordkeeping requirements related to
state-court proceedings without violating the Tenth Amend-
ment. Such requirements do not offoad the Federal Gov-
ernment's responsibilities onto the States, nor do they put
state legislatures and executives “under the direct control of
Congress.” Murphy, 584 U. S., at 474. Rather, they are a
logical consequence of our system of “dual sovereignty” in
which state courts are required to apply federal law. See
Gregory v. Ashcroft, 501 U. S. 452, 457 (1991).
Here, ICWA's recordkeeping requirements are comparable
in kind and in degree to the historical examples. Like the
naturalization laws, § 1951(a) requires the state court to
transmit to the Secretary a copy of a court order along with
Page Proof Pending Publication
basic demographic information. Section 1915(e) likewise re-
quires the State to record a limited amount of information—
the efforts made to comply with the placement preferences—
and provide the information to the Secretary and to the
child's tribe. These duties are “ancillary” to the state
court's obligation to conduct child custody proceedings in
compliance with ICWA. Printz, 521 U. S., at 908, n. 2.
Thus, ICWA's recordkeeping requirements are consistent
with the Tenth Amendment.

IV
Petitioners raise two additional claims: an equal protection
challenge to ICWA's placement preferences and a nondelega-
tion challenge to the provision allowing tribes to alter the
placement preferences. We do not reach the merits of these
claims because no party before the Court has standing to
raise them. Article III requires a plaintiff to show that she
has suffered an injury in fact that is “ `fairly traceable to
292 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

the defendant's allegedly unlawful conduct and likely to be
redressed by the requested relief.' ” California v. Texas,
593 U. S. –––, ––– (2021). Neither the individual petitioners
nor Texas can pass that test.

A
The individual petitioners argue that ICWA injures them
by placing them on “[un]equal footing” with Indian parents
who seek to adopt or foster an Indian child. Northeastern
Fla. Chapter, Associated Gen. Contractors of America v.
Jacksonville, 508 U. S. 656, 666 (1993). Under ICWA's hier-
archy of preferences, non-Indian parents are generally last
in line for potential placements. According to petitioners,
this “erects a barrier that makes it more diffcult for mem-
bers of one group to obtain a beneft than it is for members
of another group.” Ibid.; see also Turner v. Fouche, 396
U. S. 346, 362 (1970) (the Equal Protection Clause secures
Page Proof Pending Publication
the right of individuals “to be considered” for government
positions and benefts “without the burden of invidiously
discriminatory disqualifcations”). The racial discrimination
they allege counts as an Article III injury.9
But the individual petitioners have not shown that this
injury is “likely” to be “redressed by judicial relief.” Trans-
Union LLC v. Ramirez, 594 U. S. 413, 423 (2021). They seek
an injunction preventing the federal parties from enforcing
ICWA and a declaratory judgment that the challenged provi-
sions are unconstitutional. Yet enjoining the federal parties
would not remedy the alleged injury, because state courts
apply the placement preferences, and state agencies carry
out the court-ordered placements. §§ 1903(1), 1915(a), (b);
9
Respondents raise other objections to the individual petitioners' stand-
ing, including that the alleged injury is speculative because it depends on
future proceedings to foster or adopt Indian children. Brief for Tribal
Defendants 46–50; Brief for Federal Parties 49–52. Because we resolve
the standing of all individual petitioners on the ground of redressability,
we do not address respondents' other arguments.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 293

Opinion of the Court

see also Brief for Individual Petitioners 63 (“There is no fed-
eral offcial who administers ICWA or carries out its man-
dates”). The state offcials who implement ICWA are “not
parties to the suit, and there is no reason they should be
obliged to honor an incidental legal determination the suit
produced.” Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555,
569 (1992) (plurality opinion). So an injunction would not
give petitioners legally enforceable protection from the al-
legedly imminent harm.
Petitioners' request for a declaratory judgment suffers
from the same faw. See Skelly Oil Co. v. Phillips Petro-
leum Co., 339 U. S. 667, 671–672 (1950). This form of relief
conclusively resolves “ `the legal rights of the parties.' ”
Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC, 571
U. S. 191, 200 (2014) (emphasis added). But again, state of-
fcials are nonparties who would not be bound by the judg-
ment. Taylor v. Sturgell, 553 U. S. 880, 892–893 (2008).
Page Proof Pending Publication
Thus, the equal protection issue would not be settled be-
tween petitioners and the offcials who matter—which would
leave the declaratory judgment powerless to remedy the al-
leged harm. 994 F. 3d, at 448 (Costa, J., concurring in part
and dissenting in part) (“What saves proper declaratory
judgments from a redressability problem—but is lacking
here—is that they have preclusive effect on a traditional law-
suit that is imminent”). After all, the point of a declaratory
judgment “is to establish a binding adjudication that enables
the parties to enjoy the benefts of reliance and repose
secured by res judicata.” 18A C. Wright, A. Miller, & E.
Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure § 4446 (3d ed. Supp.
2022). Without preclusive effect, a declaratory judgment is
little more than an advisory opinion. Ibid.; see Public Serv.
Comm'n of Utah v. Wycoff Co., 344 U. S. 237, 242–243 (1952).
The individual petitioners do not dispute—or even ad-
dress—any of this. Instead, they insist that state courts are
likely to defer to a federal court's interpretation of federal
law, thus giving rise to a substantial likelihood that a favor-
294 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

able judgment will redress their injury. Brief in Opposition
for Individual Respondents 19–20; Reply Brief for Individual
Petitioners 29. They point out that, in the Brackeens' ongo-
ing efforts to adopt Y. R. J., the trial court stated that it
would follow the federal court's ruling on the Brackeens' con-
stitutional claims. Ibid. Thus, they reason, winning this
case would solve their problems.
But “[r]edressability requires that the court be able to af-
ford relief through the exercise of its power, not through the
persuasive or even awe-inspiring effect of the opinion ex-
plaining the exercise of its power.” Franklin v. Massachu-
setts, 505 U. S. 788, 825 (1992) (Scalia, J., concurring in part
and concurring in judgment) (emphasis in original); see also
United States v. Juvenile Male, 564 U. S. 932, 937 (2011)
(per curiam) (a judgment's “possible, indirect beneft in a
future lawsuit” does not preserve standing). Otherwise, re-
dressability would be satisfed whenever a decision might
Page Proof Pending Publication
persuade actors who are not before the court—contrary to
Article III's strict prohibition on “issuing advisory opin-
ions.” Carney v. Adams, 592 U. S. 53, 58 (2020). It is a
federal court's judgment, not its opinion, that remedies an
injury; thus it is the judgment, not the opinion, that demon-
strates redressability. The individual petitioners can hope
for nothing more than an opinion, so they cannot satisfy Arti-
cle III.10
B
Texas also lacks standing to challenge the placement pref-
erences. It has no equal protection rights of its own, South
Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 323 (1966), and it can-
not assert equal protection claims on behalf of its citizens

10
Of course, the individual petitioners can challenge ICWA's constitu-
tionality in state court, as the Brackeens have done in their adoption
proceedings for Y. R. J. 994 F. 3d 249, 294 (CA5 2021) (principal opinion
of Dennis, J.).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 295

Opinion of the Court

because “[a] State does not have standing as parens patriae
to bring an action against the Federal Government,” Alfred
L. Snapp & Son, Inc. v. Puerto Rico ex rel. Barez, 458 U. S.
592, 610, n. 16 (1982).11 That should make the issue open
and shut.
Yet Texas advances a few creative arguments for why it
has standing despite these settled rules. It leads with what
one might call an “unclean hands” injury: ICWA “injures
Texas by requiring it to break its promise to its citizens that
it will be colorblind in child-custody proceedings.” Reply
Brief for Texas 15; id., at 14 (“ICWA forces Texas to violate
its own constitutional obligations”). This is not the kind of
“concrete” and “particularized” “invasion of a legally pro-
tected interest” necessary to demonstrate an “ `injury in
fact.' ” Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560. Were it otherwise, a State
would always have standing to bring constitutional chal-
lenges when it is complicit in enforcing federal law. Texas
tries to fnesse this problem by characterizing ICWA as a
Page Proof Pending Publication
“fscal trap,” forcing it to discriminate against its citizens or
lose federal funds. Brief for Petitioner Texas 39–40. But
ICWA is not a Spending Clause statute—Texas bases this
argument on a vague reference to a different Spending
Clause statute that it does not challenge. And Texas has
not established that those funds, which the State has ac-
cepted for years, are conditioned on compliance with the

11
Texas claims that it can assert third-party standing on behalf of non-
Indian families. This argument is a thinly veiled attempt to circumvent
the limits on parens patriae standing. The case on which Texas relies,
Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U. S. 42 (1992), allowed a State to represent
jurors struck on the basis of race, because (among other reasons) “[a]s the
representative of all its citizens, the State is the logical and proper party
to assert the invasion of the constitutional rights of the excluded jurors in
a criminal trial.” Id., at 56. But McCollum was not a suit against the
Federal Government; moreover, it involved a “concrete injury” to the
State and “some hindrance to the third party's ability to protect its own
interests,” neither of which is present here. Id., at 55–56.
296 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Opinion of the Court

placement preferences anyway. See 42 U. S. C. § 622; Brief
for Federal Parties 49, n. 6.
Texas also claims a direct pocketbook injury associated
with the costs of keeping records, providing notice in invol-
untary proceedings, and producing expert testimony before
moving a child to foster care or terminating parental rights.
Reply Brief for Texas 13–14. But these alleged costs are
not “fairly traceable” to the placement preferences, which
“operate independently” of the provisions Texas identifes.
California, 593 U. S., at –––. The provisions do not rise or
fall together; proving that the placement preferences are un-
constitutional “would not show that enforcement of any of
these other provisions violates the Constitution.” Ibid. In
other words, Texas would continue to incur the complained-
of costs even if it were relieved of the duty to apply the
placement preferences. The former, then, cannot justify a
challenge to the latter.
Because Texas is not injured by the placement prefer-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ences, neither would it be injured by a tribal resolution that
altered those preferences pursuant to § 1915(c). Texas
therefore does not have standing to bring either its equal
protection or its nondelegation claims.12

* * *
For these reasons, we affrm the judgment of the Court
of Appeals regarding Congress's constitutional authority
to enact ICWA. On the anticommandeering claims, we
reverse. On the equal protection and nondelegation
claims, we vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals
and remand with instructions to dismiss for lack of
jurisdiction.
It is so ordered.
12
Although the individual petitioners join Texas's nondelegation chal-
lenge to § 1915(c), they raise no independent arguments about why they
would have standing to bring this claim. Brief for Individual Petitioners
41, n. 6; Brief for Federal Parties 79, n. 14.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 297

Gorsuch, J., concurring

Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Sotomayor and
Justice Jackson join as to Parts I and III, concurring.
In affrming the constitutionality of the Indian Child
Welfare Act (ICWA), the Court safeguards the ability of
tribal members to raise their children free from interference
by state authorities and other outside parties. In the proc-
ess, the Court also goes a long way toward restoring the
original balance between federal, state, and tribal powers
the Constitution envisioned. I am pleased to join the
Court's opinion in full. I write separately to add some his-
torical context. To appreciate fully the signifcance of to-
day's decision requires an understanding of the long line of
policies that drove Congress to adopt ICWA. And to ap-
preciate why that law surely comports with the Constitution
requires a bird's-eye view of how our founding document me-
diates between competing federal, state, and tribal claims
of sovereignty.
I
Page Proof Pending Publication
The Indian Child Welfare Act did not emerge from a vac-
uum. It came as a direct response to the mass removal of
Indian children from their families during the 1950s, 1960s,
and 1970s by state offcials and private parties. That prac-
tice, in turn, was only the latest iteration of a much older
policy of removing Indian children from their families—one
initially spearheaded by federal offcials with the aid of their
state counterparts nearly 150 years ago. In all its many
forms, the dissolution of the Indian family has had devastat-
ing effects on children and parents alike. It has also pre-
sented an existential threat to the continued vitality of
Tribes—something many federal and state offcials over the
years saw as a feature, not as a faw. This is the story of
ICWA. And with this story, it pays to start at the beginning.

A
When Native American Tribes were forced onto reserva-
tions, they understood that life would never again be as it
298 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

was. M. Fletcher & W. Singel, Indian Children and the
Federal–Tribal Trust Relationship, 95 Neb. L. Rev. 885, 917–
918 (2017) (Fletcher & Singel). Securing a foothold for their
children in a rapidly changing world, the Tribes knew, would
require schooling. Ibid. So as they ceded their lands,
Tribes also negotiated “more than 150” treaties with the
United States that included “education-related provisions.”
Dept. of Interior, B. Newland, Federal Indian Boarding
School Initiative Investigative Report 33 (May 2022) (BIA
Report). Many tribal leaders hoped these provisions would
lead to the creation of “reservation Indian schools that would
blend traditional Indian education with the needed non-
Indian skills that would allow their members to adapt to the
reservation way of life.” R. Cross, American Indian Educa-
tion: The Terror of History and the Nation's Debt to the In-
dian Peoples, 21 U. Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. 941, 950 (1999).
At frst, Indian education typically came in the form of day
Page Proof Pending Publication
schools, many of them “established through the . . . efforts
of missionaries or the wives of Army offcers stationed at
military reservations in the Indian country.” Annual Re-
port of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary
of Interior, p. LXI (1886) (ARCIA 1886). At those day
schools, “Indian children would learn English as a second
language,” along with “math and science.” Fletcher &
Singel 917–918. But the children lived at home with their
families where they could continue to learn and practice
“their languages, beliefs, and traditional knowledge.” Id.,
at 918. At least in those “early decades,” schooling was
“generally . . . not compulsory” anyway. Id., at 914.
The federal government had darker designs. By the late
1870s, its goals turned toward destroying tribal identity and
assimilating Indians into broader society. See L. Lacey, The
White Man's Law and the American Indian Family in the
Assimilation Era, 40 Ark. L. Rev. 327, 356–357 (1986).
Achieving those goals, offcials reasoned, required the “com-
plete isolation of the Indian child from his savage anteced-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 299

Gorsuch, J., concurring

ents.” ARCIA 1886, at LXI. And because “the warm re-
ciprocal affection existing between parents and children”
was “among the strongest characteristics of the Indian na-
ture,” offcials set out to eliminate it by dissolving Indian
families. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian Af-
fairs to the Secretary of Interior 392 (1904).
Thus began Indian boarding schools. In 1879, the Carlisle
Indian Industrial School opened its doors at the site of an
old military base in central Pennsylvania. Carlisle's head,
then-Captain Richard Henry Pratt, summarized the school's
mission this way: “[A]ll the Indian there is in the race should
be dead. Kill the Indian in him, and save the man.” The
Advantages of Mingling Indians With Whites, in Proceedings
of the National Conference of Charities and Correction 46 (I.
Barrows ed. 1892). From its inception, Carlisle depended
on state support. The school “was deeply enmeshed with
local governments and their services,” and it was “expanded
Page Proof Pending Publication
thanks to the Pennsylvania Legislature.” Brief for Ameri-
can Historical Association et al. as Amici Curiae 11 (Histori-
ans Brief). Ultimately, Carlisle became the model for what
would become a system of 408 similar federal institutions
nationwide. BIA Report 82. “The essential feature” of
each was, in the federal government's own words, “the aboli-
tion of the old tribal relations.” Annual Report of the Com-
missioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of Interior 28
(1910).
Unsurprisingly, “[m]any Indian families resisted” the fed-
eral government's boarding school initiative and “refus[ed]
to send their children.” S. Rep. No. 91–501, pt. 1, p. 12
(1969). But Congress would not be denied. It authorized
the Secretary of the Interior to “prevent the issuing of ra-
tions or the furnishing of subsistence” to Indian families who
would not surrender their children. Act of Mar. 3, 1893, 27
Stat. 628, 635; see also, e. g., Act of Feb. 14, 1920, 41 Stat.
410. When economic coercion failed, offcials sometimes re-
sorted to abduction. See BIA Report 36. As one offcial
300 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

later recounted, offcers would “visit the [Indian] camps un-
expectedly with a detachment of [offcers], and seize such
children as were proper and take them away to school, will-
ing or unwilling.” ARCIA 1886, at 199. When parents
“hurried their children off to the mountains or hid them
away in camp,” agents “chase[d] and capture[d] them like
so many wild rabbits.” Ibid. Fathers were described as
“sullen,” mothers “loud in their lamentations,” and the chil-
dren “almost out of their wits with fright.” Ibid.
Upon the children's arrival, the boarding schools would
often seek to strip them of nearly every aspect of their iden-
tity. The schools would take away their Indian names and
give them English ones. See BIA Report 53. The schools
would cut their hair—a point of shame in many native com-
munities, see J. Reyhner & J. Eder, American Indian Educa-
tion 178 (2004)—and confscate their traditional clothes.
ARCIA 1886, at 199. Administrators delighted in the proc-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ess, describing the “metamorphosis [a]s wonderful,” and pro-
fessing that, in the main, “the little savage seems quite proud
of his appearance.” Ibid. After intake, the schools fre-
quently prohibited children from speaking their native lan-
guage or engaging in customary cultural or religious prac-
tices. BIA Report 53. Nor could children freely associate
with members of their own Tribe. Schools would organize
dorms by the “[s]ize of cadets, and not their tribal relations,”
so as to further “br[eak] up the tribal associations.” ARCIA
1886, at 6.
Resistance could invite punishments that included “with-
holding food” and “whipping.” BIA Report 54 (internal
quotation marks omitted). Older boys faced “court-
martial,” with other Indian children serving as prosecutors
and judges. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs to the Secretary of Interior 188 (1881). Even com-
pliant students faced “[r]ampant physical, sexual, and emo-
tional abuse; disease; malnourishment; overcrowding; and
lack of health care.” BIA Report 56. Given these condi-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 301

Gorsuch, J., concurring

tions, it is unsurprising that many children tried (often un-
successfully) to fee. Id., at 55, n. 176 (recounting incidents).
State offcials played a key role in foiling those efforts.
“[P]olice from a variety of jurisdictions” assisted in “captur-
[ing] and return[ing] runaway school children.” Historians
Brief 11–12. For “the runaways,” school administrators be-
lieved “a whipping administered soundly and prayerfully,
helps greatly towards bringing about the desired result.”
BIA Report 55 (internal quotation marks omitted). As one
Commissioner of Indian Affairs put it, while “[t]he frst wild
redskin placed in the school[s] chafes at the loss of freedom
and longs to return to his wildwood home,” that resistance
would fade with “each successive generation,” leaving a
“greater desir[e] to be in touch with the dominant race.”
Id., at 51–52 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Adding insult to injury, the United States stuck Tribes with
a bill for these programs. At points, as much as 95 percent of
Page Proof Pending Publication
the funding for Indian boarding schools came from “Indian
trust fund monies” raised by selling Indian land. Id., at 44.
To subsidize operations further, the boarding schools fre-
quently required children not even 12 years old to work on
the grounds. Id., at 62–63. Some rationalized this experi-
ence as a beneft to the children. Id., at 59–63. But in can-
dor, Indian boarding schools “could not possibly be main-
tained . . . were it not for the fact that students [were]
required to do . . . an amount of labor that ha[d] in the aggre-
gate a very appreciable monetary value.” L. Meriam, Insti-
tute for Government Research, The Problem of Indian Ad-
ministration 376 (1928) (Meriam Report).
To lower costs further and promote assimilation, some
schools created an “outing system,” which sent Indian chil-
dren to live “with white families” and perform “household
and farm chores” for them. R. Trennert, From Carlisle to
Phoenix: The Rise and Fall of the Indian Outing System,
1878–1930, 52 Pacifc Hist. Rev. 267, 273 (1983). This pro-
gram took many Indian children “even further from their
302 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

homes, families, and cultures.” Fletcher & Singel 943. Ad-
vocates of the outing system hoped it would be “extended
until every Indian child was in a white home.” D. Otis, The
Dawes Act and the Allotment of Indian Lands 68 (1973). In
some respects, outing-system advocates were ahead of their
time. The program they devised laid the groundwork for
the system of mass adoption that, as we shall see, eventually
moved Congress to enact ICWA many decades later.
In 1928, the Meriam Report, prepared by the Brookings
Institution, examined conditions in the Indian boarding
schools. It found, “frankly and unequivocally,” that “the
provisions for the care of the Indian children . . . are grossly
inadequate.” Meriam Report 11. It recommended that the
federal government “accelerat[e]” the “mov[e] away from the
boarding school” system in favor of “day school or public
school facilities.” Id., at 35. That transition would be slow
to materialize, though. As late as 1971, federal boarding
schools continued to house “more than 17 per cent of the
Page Proof Pending Publication
Indian school-age population.” W. Byler, The Destruction
of American Indian Families 1 (S. Unger ed. 1977) (AAIA
Report).
B
The transition away from boarding schools was not the end
of efforts to remove Indian children from their families and
Tribes; more nearly, it was the end of the beginning. As
federal boarding schools closed their doors and Indian chil-
dren returned to the reservations, States with signifcant
Native American populations found themselves facing sig-
nifcant new educational and welfare responsibilities. Histo-
rians Brief 13–18. Around this time, as fate would have it,
“shifting racial ideologies and changing gender norms [had]
led to an increased demand for Indian children” by adoptive
couples. M. Jacobs, Remembering the “Forgotten Child”:
The American Indian Child Welfare Crisis of the 1960s and
1970s, 37 Am. Indian Q. 136, 141 (2013). Certain States saw
in this shift an opportunity. They could “save . . . money”
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 303

Gorsuch, J., concurring

by “promoting the adoption of Indian children by private
families.” Id., at 153.
This restarted a now-familiar nightmare for Indian fami-
lies. The same assimilationist rhetoric previously invoked
by the federal government persisted, “voiced this time by
state and county offcials.” L. George, Why the Need for
the Indian Child Welfare Act?, 5 J. of Multicultural Social
Work 165, 169 (1997). “ `If you want to solve the Indian
problem you can do it in one generation,' ” one offcial put it.
Ibid. “ `You can take all of [the] children of school age and
move them bodily out of the Indian country and transport
them to some other part of the United States.' ” Ibid. This
would allow “ `civilized people' ” to raise the children, instead
of their families or their tribal communities. Ibid.
In this respect, “[t]he removal of Indian children by
[S]tates ha[d] much in common with Indian boarding
schools.” Fletcher & Singel 952. Through the 1960s and
Page Proof Pending Publication
1970s, Indian-child removal reached new heights. Surveys
conducted in 1969 and 1974 showed that “approximately 25–
35 per cent of all Indian children [were] separated from their
families.” AAIA Report 1. Often, these removals whisked
children not only out of their families but out of their commu-
nities. Some estimate that “more than 90 per cent of non-
related adoptions of Indian children [were] made by non-
Indian couples.” Id., at 2.
These family separations frequently lacked justifcation.
According to one report, only about “1 per cent” of the sepa-
rations studied involved alleged physical abuse. Ibid. The
other 99 percent? “[V]ague grounds” such “as `neglect' or
`social deprivation.' ” Ibid. These determinations, often
“wholly inappropriate in the context of Indian family life,”
came mainly from non-Indian social workers, many of whom
were “ignorant of Indian cultural values and social norms.”
Id., at 2–3. They routinely penalized Indian parents for con-
ditions of “[p]overty, poor housing, lack of modern plumbing,
and overcrowding.” Id., at 3. One 3-year-old Sioux child, for
304 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

instance, was removed from her family on the State's “belief
that an Indian reservation is an unsuitable environment
for a child.” Ibid. So it was that some Indian families,
“forced onto reservations at gunpoint,” were later “told that
they live[d] in a place unft for raising their children.” Id.,
at 3–4.
Aggravating matters, these separations were frequently
“carried out without due process of law.” Id., at 4. Chil-
dren and their parents rarely had counsel. Ibid. For that
matter, few cases saw the inside of a courtroom. Welfare
departments knew that they could threaten to withhold ben-
eft payments if Indian parents did not surrender custody.
Id., at 4–5. Nor were threats always necessary. After all
the Tribes had suffered at the government's hands, many
parents simply believed they had no power to resist. Ibid.
One interviewed mother “wept that she did not dare protest
the taking of her children for fear of going to jail.” Id., at 7.
Page Proof Pending Publication
For those Indian parents who did resist, “simple abduction”
remained an option. Id., at 5. Parents were, for instance,
sometimes tricked into signing forms that they believed au-
thorized only a brief removal of their children. Ibid. Only
later would they discover that the forms purported to sur-
render full custody. Ibid.
Like the boarding school system that preceded it, this new
program of removal had often-disastrous consequences.
“Because the family is the most fundamental economic, edu-
cational, and health-care unit” in society, these “assaults on
Indian families” contributed to the precarious conditions that
Indian parents and children already faced. Id., at 7–8.
Many parents came to “feel hopeless, powerless, and unwor-
thy”—further feeding the cycle of removal. Id., at 8. For
many children, separation from their families caused “severe
distress” that “interfere[d] with their physical, mental, and
social growth and development.” Ibid. It appears, too,
that Indian children were “signifcantly more likely” to expe-
rience “physical, sexual, [and] emotional” abuse in foster and
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 305

Gorsuch, J., concurring

adoptive homes than their white counterparts. A. Landers,
S. Danes, A. Campbell, & S. White Hawk, Abuse After
Abuse: The Recurrent Maltreatment of American Indian
Children in Foster Care and Adoption, 111 Child Abuse &
Neglect 104805, p. 9 (2021).
All that often translated into long-lasting adverse health
and emotional effects. See M. Yellow Horse Brave Heart,
The Historical Trauma Response Among Natives and Its Re-
lationship with Substance Abuse: A Lakota Illustration, 35
J. of Psychoactive Drugs 1, 7–13 (2003); U. Running Bear
et al., The Impact of Individual and Parental American In-
dian Boarding School Attendance on Chronic Physical Health
of Northern Plains Tribes, 42 Family & Community Health 1,
3–7 (2019). As one study warned: “[E]fforts to make Indian
children `white,' ” by removing them from their Tribes, “can
destroy them.” AAIA Report 9.

C
Page Proof Pending Publication
Eventually, Congress could ignore the problem no longer.
In 1978, it responded with the Indian Child Welfare Act. 92
Stat. 3069. The statute's fndings show that Congress was
acutely aware of the scope of the crisis. “[A]n alarmingly
high percentage of Indian families,” Congress observed,
were being “broken up by the removal, often unwarranted,
of their children from them by nontribal [state] public and
private agencies.” 25 U. S. C. § 1901(4). And “an alarmin-
gly high percentage of such children” were “placed in non-
Indian foster and adoptive homes and institutions.” Ibid.
Removal at that scale threatened the “continued existence
and integrity of Indian [T]ribes.” § 1901(3).
The statute Congress settled upon contains various provi-
sions aimed at addressing this crisis. At bottom, though,
the law's operation is simple. It installs substantive and
procedural guardrails against the unjustifed termination
of parental rights and removal of Indian children from
tribal life.
306 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

The touchstone of the statute is notice. In any involun-
tary removal proceeding involving an Indian child, the ini-
tiating party must inform (1) the parent or custodian; and (2)
the child's Tribe. § 1912(a). Either or both can intervene.
§ 1911(c). ICWA also makes it harder for the moving party
to win an involuntary removal proceeding. The party must
show that “active efforts” have been made to avoid removing
the Indian child. § 1912(d). It must show the status quo is
“likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to
the child.” § 1912(e), (f). And it must prove that fact by
“clear and convincing evidence,” § 1912(e) (for placement in
foster services), or “beyond a reasonable doubt,” § 1912(f)
(for termination of parental rights).
Even when it comes to voluntary removal proceedings,
ICWA sets certain “minimum Federal standards” for “the
placement of [Indian] children in foster or adoptive homes.”
§ 1902. In any adoptive placement, a court by default must
Page Proof Pending Publication
give preference to “(1) a member of the child's extended
family; (2) other members of the Indian child's [T]ribe;
or (3) other Indian families.” § 1915(a). This priority gov-
erns unless the initiating party can show “good cause.”
Ibid. A similar regime applies by default to foster-care or
pre-adoptive placements. § 1915(b). But note that “by de-
fault.” ICWA gives Tribes a voice. It allows them to
establish a “different order of preference by resolution,” pro-
vided it is “the least restrictive setting appropriate to the
particular needs of the child.” § 1915(c).
Recognizing that coercion remains possible even with
these protections, ICWA also allows for postplacement relief.
It lets the Indian child, the parent, or the Tribe “petition any
court of competent jurisdiction” to “invalidate” an order that
violated key provisions of ICWA. § 1914. Of special rele-
vance, an Indian parent consenting to adoption has two years
to withdraw consent on “the grounds that consent was ob-
tained through fraud or duress.” § 1913(d).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 307

Gorsuch, J., concurring

ICWA is not a panacea. While “[a]dopting ICWA marked
one step toward upholding tribal rights,” “many [S]tates”
have struggled with “effective implementation.” Maine
Wabanaki–State Child Welfare Truth & Reconciliation Com-
mission, Beyond the Mandate: Continuing the Conversation
12 (2015). Others resist ICWA outright, as the present liti-
gation by Texas attests. See generally M. Fletcher & W.
Singel, Lawyering the Indian Child Welfare Act, 120 Mich.
L. Rev. 1755 (2022). Still, the statute “has achieved consid-
erable success in stemming unwarranted removals by state
offcials of Indian children from their families and communi-
ties.” B. Atwood, Flashpoints Under the Indian Child Wel-
fare Act: Toward a New Understanding of State Court Re-
sistance, 51 Emory L. J. 587, 621 (2002). And considerable
research “[s]ubsequent to Congress's enactment of ICWA”
has “borne out the statute's basic premise”—that “it is gen-
erally in the best interests of Indian children to be raised in
Indian homes.” Brief for American Psychological Associa-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tion et al. as Amici Curiae 10–24.

II
This history leads us to the question at the heart of today's
cases: Did Congress lack the constitutional authority to
enact ICWA, as Texas and the private plaintiffs contend?
In truth, that is not one question, but many. What authori-
ties do the Tribes possess under our Constitution? What
power does Congress have with respect to tribal relations?
What does that mean for States? And how do those princi-
ples apply in a context like adoption, which involves compet-
ing claims of federal, state, and tribal authority?
Answering these questions requires a full view of the
Indian-law bargain struck in our Constitution. Under the
terms of that bargain, Indian Tribes remain independent
sovereigns with the exclusive power to manage their inter-
nal matters. As a corollary of that sovereignty, States have
308 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

virtually no role to play when it comes to Indian affairs. To
preserve this equilibrium between Tribes and States, the
Constitution vests in the federal government a set of potent
(but limited and enumerated) powers. In particular, the In-
dian Commerce Clause gives Congress a robust (but not ple-
nary) power to regulate the ways in which non-Indians may
interact with Indians. To understand each of those pieces—
and how they ft together—is to understand why the Indian
Child Welfare Act must survive today's legal challenge.
This is all much more straightforward than it sounds.
Take each piece of the puzzle in turn. Then, with the full
constitutional picture assembled, return to ICWA's provi-
sions. By then, you will have all you need to see why the
Court upholds the law.
A
Start with the question how our Constitution approaches
tribal sovereignty. In the years before Jamestown, Indian
Page Proof Pending Publication
Tribes existed as “self-governing sovereign political commu-
nities.” United States v. Wheeler, 435 U. S. 313, 322–323
(1978). They employed “sophisticated governmental mod-
els,” formed “[c]onfederacies” with one another, and often
engaged in decisionmaking by “consensual agreement.” 1
B. Pritzker, Native Americans: An Encyclopedia of History,
Culture, and Peoples xii (1998).
When the British crossed the Atlantic, they brought with
them their own legal understandings. A seasoned colonial
power, Britain was no stranger to the idea of “tributary”
and “feudatory” states. E. de Vattel, Law of Nations 60–61
(1805) (Vattel). And it was a long-held tenet of international
law that such entities do not “cease to be sovereign and inde-
pendent” even when subject to military conquest—at least
not “so long as self government and sovereign and independ-
ent authority are left in the[ir] administration.” Worcester
v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 561 (1832). For that reason, early
“history furnishes no example, from the frst settlement of
our country, of any attempt on the part of the [C]rown to
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 309

Gorsuch, J., concurring

interfere with the internal affairs of the Indians.” Id., at
547; see also Vattel 60. Instead, the “settled state of things”
refected the British view that Tribes were “nations capable
of maintaining the relations of peace and war; [and] of gov-
erning themselves.” 6 Pet., at 548–549.
Consistent with that understanding, the British regarded
“the Indians as owners of their land.” S. Banner, How the
Indians Lost Their Land: Law and Power on the Frontier 12
(2005). Britain often purchased land from Tribes (at least
nominally) and predicated its system of legal title on those
purchases. Ibid. The Crown entered into all manner of
treaties with the Tribes too—just as it did with fellow Euro-
pean powers. See, e. g., Letter from Gov. Burnet to Lords
of Trade, Nov. 21, 1722, concerning the Great Treaty of 1722
Between the Five Nations, the Mahicans, and the Colonies
of New York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania, in 5 Documents
Relative to the Colonial History of the State of New York
Page Proof Pending Publication
655–681 (E. O'Callaghan ed. 1855); Deed in Trust From
Three of the Five Nations of Indians to the King in 1726, in
id., at 800–801; A Treaty Held at the Town of Lancaster with
the Indians of the Six Nations in 1744, in Indian Treaties,
Printed by Benjamin Franklin, 1736–1762, pp. 43–49 (1938).
Ultimately, “the American Revolution replaced that legal
framework with a similar one.” Oklahoma v. Castro-
Huerta, 597 U. S. 629, 658 (2022) (Gorsuch, J., dissenting).
The newly independent Nation wasted no time entering into
treaties of its own—in no small part to secure its continued
existence against external threats. See, e. g., Articles of
Agreement and Confederation, Sept. 17, 1778, 7 Stat. 13. In
practice, too, “[t]he new Republic” broadly recognized “the
sovereignty of Indian [T]ribes,” even if it did so “sometimes
grudgingly.” W. Quinn, Federal Acknowledgment of Ameri-
can Indian Tribes: The Historical Development of a Legal
Concept, 34 Am. J. L. Hist. 331, 337 (1990). As we will see,
the period under the Articles of Confederation was marred
by signifcant confict, driven by state and individual intru-
310 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

sions on tribal land. But the Constitution that followed re-
fected an understanding that Tribes enjoy a power to rule
themselves that no other governmental body—state or fed-
eral—may usurp.
Several constitutional provisions prove the point. One
sure tell is the federal government's treaty power. See
Art. II, § 2, cl. 2. Because the United States “adopted and
sanctioned the previous treaties with the Indian nations, [it]
consequently admit[ted the Tribes'] rank among those pow-
ers who are capable of making treaties.” Worcester, 6 Pet.,
at 559. Similarly, the Commerce Clause vests in Congress
the power to “regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,”
“among the several States,” and “with the Indian Tribes,”
Art. I, § 8, cl. 3—conferrals of authority with respect to three
separate sorts of sovereign entities that do not entail the
power to eliminate any of them. Even beyond that, the Con-
stitution exempts from the apportionment calculus “Indians
Page Proof Pending Publication
not taxed.” § 2, cl. 3. This formula “ratifed the legal treat-
ment of tribal Indians [even] within the [S]tates as separate
and sovereign peoples, who were simply not part of the state
polities. ” R. Clinton, The Dormant Indian Commerce
Clause, 27 Conn. L. Rev. 1055, 1150 (1995) (Clinton 1995).
(The Fourteenth Amendment would later reprise this lan-
guage, Amdt. 14, § 2, confrming both the enduring sover-
eignty of Tribes and the bedrock principle that Indian status
is a “political rather than racial” classifcation, Morton v.
Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 553, n. 24 (1974).)
Given these express provisions, the early conduct of the
political branches comes as little surprise. From the begin-
ning, the “Washington Administration acknowledged consid-
erable Native autonomy.” G. Ablavsky, Beyond the Indian
Commerce Clause, 124 Yale L. J. 1012, 1067 (2015) (Ablavsky
2015). Henry Knox, President Washington's Secretary of
War, described the Tribes as akin to “foreign nations, not as
the subjects of any particular [S]tate.” Letter to G. Wash-
ington (July 7, 1789), in 3 Papers of George Washington:
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 311

Gorsuch, J., concurring

Presidential Series 134–141 (D. Twohig ed. 1989). Thomas
Jefferson spoke of them as maintaining “full, undivided and
independent sovereignty as long as they chose to keep it,”
commenting also “that this might be for ever.” Notes on
Cabinet Opinions (Feb. 26, 1793), in 25 Papers of Thomas
Jefferson 271–272 (J. Catanzariti ed. 1992). This view would
later feature in a formal opinion of the Attorney General,
who explained that, “[s]o long as a [T]ribe exists . . . its title
and possession are sovereign and exclusive; and there exists
no authority to enter upon their lands, for any purpose what-
ever, without their consent.” 1 Op. Atty. Gen. 465, 466
(1821).
What went for the Executive went for Congress. In the
frst few decades of the Nation's existence, the Legislative
Branch passed a battery of statutes known as the Indian
Trade and Intercourse Acts. See, e. g., Act of July 22, 1790,
ch. 33, 1 Stat. 137; Act of Mar. 1, 1793, ch. 19, 1 Stat. 329; Act
Page Proof Pending Publication
of May 19, 1796, ch. 30, 1 Stat. 469; Act of Mar. 30, 1802, ch.
13, 2 Stat. 139; Act of June 30, 1834, 4 Stat. 729. Without
exception, those Acts “either explicitly or implicitly regu-
lated only the non-Indians who venture[d] into Indian coun-
try to deal with Indians,” and “did not purport to regulate
the [T]ribes or their members” in any way. R. Clinton,
There is No Federal Supremacy Clause for Indian Tribes, 34
Ariz. St. L. J. 113, 134 (2002) (Clinton 2002).
This Court recognized many of these same points in its
early cases. For example, in Worcester, the State of Georgia
sought to seize Cherokee lands, abolish the Tribe and its
laws, and apply its own criminal laws to tribal lands. 6 Pet.,
at 525–528. Holding Georgia's laws unconstitutional, this
Court acknowledged that Tribes remain “independent politi-
cal communities, retaining their original natural rights.”
Id., at 559. While “necessarily dependent on” the United
States, id., at 555, under “the settled doctrine of the law of
nations,” the Court held, “a weaker power does not surren-
der its independence—its right to self-government, by asso-
312 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

ciating with a stronger and taking its protection,” id., at 560–
561. The Cherokee, like other Tribes, remained “a distinct
community occupying its own territory . . . in which the laws
of [the State] can have no force, and which the citizens of
[that State] have no right to enter, but with the assent of the
[Tribe] themselves, or in conformity with treaties, and with
the acts of [C]ongress.” Id., at 561. Justice McLean, con-
curring, put it succinctly: “All the rights which belong to self
government have been recognized as vested in [the Tribes].”
Id., at 580.
In the end, President Jackson refused to abide by the
Court's decision in Worcester, precipitating the Trail of
Tears. He is quoted as saying: “ `John Marshall has made
his decision; now let him enforce it.' ” F. Cohen, Handbook
of Federal Indian Law 123 (1942). But just as this Court
had no power to enforce its judgment, President Jackson had
no power to erase its reasoning. So the rule of Worcester
Page Proof Pending Publication
persisted in courts of law, unchanged, for decades. Recog-
nizing the inherent sovereignty of Tribes, this Court held
that States could not tax Indian land. See, e. g., The Kansas
Indians, 5 Wall. 737, 751–761 (1867); The New York Indians,
5 Wall. 761, 771–772 (1867). It held that the Fourteenth
Amendment did not apply on Indian land. See Elk v. Wil-
kins, 112 U. S. 94, 99–109 (1884). And it sharply limited
even the power of the federal government to prosecute
crimes between Indians on Indian land where the Tribe had
stepped in to resolve the dispute. See Ex parte Crow Dog,
109 U. S. 556, 572 (1883).
Nor did later developments call this original understand-
ing into doubt. To be sure, in 1871, Congress declared that
Tribes (prospectively) are no longer parties “with whom the
United States may contract by treaty.” Act of Mar. 3, 1871,
16 Stat. 566, codifed at 25 U. S. C. § 71; but see United States
v. Lara, 541 U. S. 193, 218 (2004) (Thomas, J., concurring in
judgment) (describing the Act as “constitutionally suspect”);
M. Pearl, Originalism and Indians, 93 Tulane L. Rev. 269,
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 313

Gorsuch, J., concurring

330–331 (2018) (Pearl) (similar). But the sponsors of that
Act sought only to increase the role of bicameral legislation
in managing Indian affairs. See Antoine v. Washington, 420
U. S. 194, 202–203 (1975). The law did not purport to “inval-
idat[e] or impai[r]” any existing “obligation of any treaty law-
fully made and ratifed.” 25 U. S. C. § 71. And the law did
not abridge, nor could it have validly abridged, the long-
settled view of tribal sovereignty. In fact, the United
States proceeded to enter into roughly 400 further executive
agreements with the Tribes practically indistinguishable
from the treaties that came before. See generally V. Delo-
ria & R. DeMallie, Documents of American Indian Diplo-
macy: Treaties, Agreements, and Conventions, 1775–1979
(1999). Keep this original understanding of tribal sover-
eignty in mind. It provides an essential point of framing.

B

Page Proof
Just as the Pending
Constitution Publication
safeguards the sovereign author-
ity of Tribes, it comes with a “concomitant jurisdictional
limit on the reach of state law” over Indian affairs. McCla-
nahan v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 411 U. S. 164, 171 (1973).
As this Court has consistently recognized, “[t]he policy of
leaving Indians free from state jurisdiction and control is
deeply rooted in the Nation's history.” Rice v. Olson, 324
U. S. 786, 789 (1945). Instead, responsibility for managing
interactions with the Tribes rests exclusively with the fed-
eral government. To appreciate this point, walk through
time once more.
Since the frst days of British rule, the Crown oversaw—
and retained the power to dictate—the Colonies' engagement
with the Indian Tribes. See Clinton 1995, at 1064–1098. In
response to a pattern of confict arising out of colonial intru-
sion on tribal land, that supervision grew increasingly exact-
ing. Ibid.; see also R. Clinton, The Proclamation of 1763:
Colonial Prelude to Two Centuries of Federal-State Confict
Over the Management of Indian Affairs, 69 B. U. L. Rev.
314 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

329, 331–337 (1989) (Clinton 1989). In 1743, for example, a
British royal commission rejected an effort by the colony of
Connecticut to exercise independent jurisdiction over a
Tribe within its borders. Id., at 335–336. The decision
rested on a now-familiar logic: “The Indians, though living
amongst the king's subjects in these countries, are a sepa-
rate and distinct people from them, they are treated with as
such, they have a polity of their own, they make peace and
war with any nation of Indians when they think ft, without
controul from the English.” Opinion of Comm'r Horsman-
den, Aug. 1, 1743, in Governor and Company of Connecticut,
and Moheagan Indians, By Their Guardians 126 (1743).
The mere suggestion of colonial management of tribal rela-
tions catalyzed further “centralization of oversight and con-
trol of colonial Indian regulation by the British government,”
culminating in the Proclamation of 1763. Clinton 1989, at
336. That proclamation announced the Crown's intent to
Page Proof Pending Publication
manage all “land cessions, diplomatic and other relations, and
trade with the Indian [T]ribes,” and to displace contrary co-
lonial practice. Id., at 357. Britain never had a chance to
iron out the kinks of that approach before the Revolutionary
War broke out. But “[i]mmediately prior to 1776, the stage
was set” for “complete imperial control over the management
of Indian matters.” Id., at 362.
After the Revolution, the Articles of Confederation gave
the newly formed “[U]nited [S]tates . . . the sole and exclu-
sive right and power of . . . managing all affairs with the
Indians, not members of any of the [S]tates.” Art. IX
(1777). In providing that grant of authority, the Articles'
drafters may have meant to codify the centralized approach
the British had pursued. But the “byzantine” document the
drafters created, Ablavsky 2015, at 1034, came with a pair of
easily exploited loopholes. First, the language of its Indian
affairs clause allowed some to claim that various Tribes were
“ `members' ” of the States and thus “exclusively or princi-
pally subject to state legislative control.” Clinton 1995, at
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 315

Gorsuch, J., concurring

1103, 1150. Second, owing to a fear that the phrase “sole
and exclusive” could give the misimpression that States
lacked power to manage their own affairs, the Articles' draft-
ers added another clause stipulating that “the legislative
right of any [S]tate within its own limits be not infringed or
violated.” Art. IX. Taken literally, that provision meant
only that the Articles left to States what belonged to the
States and to the Tribes what belonged to the Tribes. But
some States saw in that language too an opportunity to as-
sert their own control. See Clinton 1995, at 1103, 1107,
1113–1118, 1128–1131.
The result? A season of confict brought about by state
and private encroachments on tribal authority. G. Ablavsky,
The Savage Constitution, 63 Duke L. J. 999, 1035–1036 (2014)
(Ablavsky 2014). By the time the Constitutional Conven-
tion rolled around, “Indian uprisings had occurred . . . in the
Ohio River Valley and Virginia,” “the Creeks and Georgia
Page Proof Pending Publication
were on the brink of open warfare,” and there was signifcant
turmoil “on the western frontier.” Clinton 1995, at 1147.
Those events were not lost on the framers. As they debated
how to broker enduring peace, two predominant schools of
thought emerged. Madison and his followers favored pre-
venting intrusions on Indian land and interests; Hamilton
and his adherents favored resort to military might. Ablav-
sky 2014, at 1035–1038. Both sides, however, found agree-
ment on the “need for a stronger federal government” pres-
ence, without the impediment of state interference. Id., at
1038.
Even as the Constitutional Convention assembled, a com-
mittee of the Continental Congress noted that it “had been
long understood and pretty well ascertained” that the
Crown's absolute powers to “manag[e] Affairs with the Indi-
ans” passed in its “entire[ty] to the Union” following Inde-
pendence, meaning that “[t]he laws of the State can have no
effect upon a [T]ribe of Indians or their lands within the
limits of the [S]tate so long as that [T]ribe is independent.”
316 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

33 Journals of the Continental Congress 1774–1789, p. 458
(R. Hill ed. 1936). That had to be so, the committee ob-
served, for the same reason that individual States could not
enter treaties with foreign powers: “[T]he Indian [T]ribes
are justly considered the common friends or enemies of the
United States, and no particular [S]tate can have an exclu-
sive interest in the management of Affairs with any of the
[T]ribes.” Id., at 459.
This understanding found its way directly into the text of
the Constitution. The fnal version assigned the newly
formed federal government a bundle of powers that encom-
passed “all that is required for the regulation of [the Na-
tion's] intercourse with the Indians.” Worcester, 6 Pet., at
559. By contrast, the Constitution came with no indication
that States had any similar sort of power. Indeed, it omit-
ted the nettlesome language in the Articles about the “legis-
lative right” of States. Not only that. The Constitution's
Page Proof Pending Publication
express exclusion of “Indians not taxed” from the apportion-
ment formula, Art. I, § 2, cl. 3, threw cold water on some
States' attempts to claim that Tribes fell within their terri-
tory—and therefore their control. And, lest any doubt re-
main, the Constitution divested States of any power to
“enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation.” § 10,
cl. 1. By removing that diplomatic power, the Constitution's
design also divested them of the leading tool for managing
tribal relations at that time.
The Constitution's departure from the Articles' articula-
tion was praised by many and criticized by some. Federal-
ists (such as James Madison) applauded the fact that the new
federal government would be “unfettered” by the Articles'
constraints. The Federalist No. 42, p. 268 (C. Rossiter ed.
1961). Certain Anti-Federalists (including Abraham Yates
Jr.) disfavored the “tota[l] surrender into the hands of Con-
gress [of] the management and regulation of the Indian af-
fairs.” Letter to Citizens of New York (June 13–14, 1788),
in 20 Documentary History of the Ratifcation of the Consti-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 317

Gorsuch, J., concurring

tution 1153, 1158 (J. Kaminski et al. eds. 2004) (emphasis
added). At bottom, however, no one questioned that the
Constitution took a view about where the power to manage
Indian affairs would reside in the future. And no one
doubted that it selected the federal government, not the
States.
Early practice confrmed this understanding. “The Wash-
ington Administration insisted that the federal government
enjoyed exclusive constitutional authority” over managing
relationships with the Indian Tribes. Ablavsky 2015, at
1019. As President Washington put it, the federal govern-
ment “possess[ed] the only authority of regulating an inter-
course with [the Tribes], and redressing their grievances.”
Letter to T. Miffin (Sept. 4, 1790), in 6 The Papers of George
Washington: Presidential Series 396 (D. Twohig ed. 1996)
(emphasis added). Even “many state offcials agreed” with
President Washington's assessment. Ablavsky 2015, at
Page Proof Pending Publication
1019. South Carolina Governor Charles Pinckney acknowl-
edged that “the sole management of India[n] affairs” is “com-
mitted” to “the general Government.” Letter to G. Wash-
ington (Dec. 14, 1789), in 4 Papers of George Washington:
Presidential Series 404 (D. Twohig ed. 1993). Other leading
proponents of States' rights reluctantly drew the same con-
clusion. “[U]nder the present Constitution,” Thomas Jeffer-
son lamented, States lack any “right to Treat with the In-
dians without the consent of the General Government.”
Letter to H. Knox (Aug. 10, 1791), in 22 Papers of Thomas
Jefferson 27 (C. Cullen ed. 1986).
For its part, this Court understood the absence of state
authority over tribal matters as a natural corollary of Tribes'
inherent sovereignty. Precisely because Tribes exist as a
“distinct community,” this Court concluded in Worcester, the
“laws of [States] can have no force” as to them. 6 Pet., at
561. States could no more prescribe rules for Tribes than
they could legislate for one another or a foreign sovereign.
More than that, this Court recognized that “[t]he whole in-
318 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

tercourse between the United States and [each Tribe], is by
our [C]onstitution and laws, vested in the government of the
United States.” Ibid. (emphasis added). State laws cannot
“interfere forcibly with the relations established between
the United States and [an Indian Tribe], the regulation of
which, according to the settled principles of our [C]onstitu-
tion, are committed exclusively to the government of the
[U]nion.” Ibid. (emphasis added). That principle, too, has
endured. No one can contest the “ `historic immunity from
state and local control' ” that the Tribes enjoy, nor the per-
missibility of constitutional provisions enacted to protect
the Tribes' “sovereign status.” New Mexico v. Mescalero
Apache Tribe, 462 U. S. 324, 332 (1983). Tuck that point
away too.
C
We now know that, at the founding, the Tribes retained
their sovereignty. We know also that States have virtually
Page Proof Pending Publication
no role to play in managing interactions with Tribes. From
this, it follows that “[t]he only restriction on the power” of
Tribes “in respect to [their] internal affairs” arises when
their actions “confict with the Constitution or laws of the
United States.” Roff v. Burney, 168 U. S. 218, 222 (1897).
In cases like that, the Constitution provides, federal law
must prevail. See Art. VI. This creates a hydraulic rela-
tionship between federal and tribal authority. The more the
former expands, the more the latter shrinks. All of which
raises the question: What powers does the federal govern-
ment possess with respect to Tribes?

1
Because the federal government enjoys only “limited” and
“enumerated powers,” we look to the Constitution's text.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405 (1819). Notably,
our founding document does not include a plenary federal
authority over Tribes. Nor was this an accident, at least
not in the fnal accounting. The framers considered a gen-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 319

Gorsuch, J., concurring

eral Indian Affairs Clause but left it on the cutting-room
foor. See L. Updike Toler, The Missing Indian Affairs
Clause, 88 U. Chi. L. Rev. 413, 444–476 (2021) (Updike Toler).
That choice refects an important insight about the Constitu-
tion's Indian-law bargain: “Without an Indian affairs power,”
any assertion of unbounded federal authority over the Tribes
is “constitutionally wanting.” Id., at 476.
Instead of a free-foating Indian-affairs power, the framers
opted for a bundle of federal authorities tailored to “the
regulation of [the Nation's] intercourse with the Indians.”
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 559. In keeping with the framers' faith in
the separation of powers, they chose to split those authorities
“between the [E]xecutive and the [L]egislature.” Updike
Toler 479. “The residue of Indian affairs power”—all those
Indian-related powers not expressly doled out by the Consti-
tution—remained the province of “the sovereign [T]ribes.”
Id., at 481.
Page Proof Pending Publication
What was included in the federal government's bundle of
enumerated powers? In the early years, the most impor-
tant component was the authority to “make Treaties” with
the Tribes. Art. II, § 2, cl. 2. But other provisions also fa-
cilitated the management of Indian relations. The Constitu-
tion vested in Congress the power to “declare War” against
the Tribes. Art. I, § 8, cl. 11. It gave Congress authority
to “dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations
respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States,” allowing it considerable power over Indians
on federal territory. Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2. The Constitution
also authorized Congress to employ its spending power to
divert funds toward Tribes. Art. I, § 8, cl. 1. Where all
those powers came up short, the Constitution afforded the
federal government the power to “regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.” § 8, cl. 3 (emphasis added). Much of mod-
ern federal Indian law rests on that commerce power. It
demands a closer look.
320 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

2
Contained in a single sentence, what we sometimes call
“the” Commerce Clause is really three distinct Clauses
rolled into one: a Foreign Commerce Clause, an Interstate
Commerce Clause, and an Indian Commerce Clause. To be
sure, those Clauses share the same lead word: “Commerce.”
And, viewed in isolation, that word might appear to sweep
narrowly—encompassing activities like “selling, buying, and
bartering, as well as transporting for these purposes.”
United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549, 585–586 (1995)
(Thomas, J., concurring) (citing founding-era defnitions).
But it is “well established” that the individual Commerce
Clauses have “very different applications,” Cotton Petro-
leum Corp. v. New Mexico, 490 U. S. 163, 192 (1989), a point
the framers themselves acknowledged, see, e. g., Letter from
E. Randolph to G. Washington (Feb. 12, 1791), in 7 Papers
of George Washington: Presidential Series 330, 331–337 (D.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Twohig 1998).
Start with the word “Commerce.” From the Nation's ear-
liest days, Indian commerce was considered “a special sub-
ject with a defnite content,” quite “distinct and specialized”
from other sorts of “commerce.” A. Abel, The Commerce
Clause in the Constitutional Convention and in Contempo-
rary Comment, 25 Minn. L. Rev. 432, 467–468 (1941). A sur-
vey of founding-era usage confrms that the term “Com-
merce,” when describing relations with Indians, took on a
broader meaning than simple economic exchange. See Ab-
lavsky 2015, at 1012–1032 (compiling primary sources); Brief
for Gregory Ablavsky as Amicus Curiae 8–11; App. to id.,
at 1–18 (same); see also A. Amar, America's Constitution: A
Biography 107 (2005). Instead, the word was used as a
“term of art,” Pearl 322, to encompass all manner of “bilat-
eral relations with the [T]ribes,” Clinton 1995, at 1142; see
also Updike Toler 422 (noting that “Indian commerce” was a
“legal ter[m] of art” that was “informed by the practicalities
of Indian affairs”).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 321

Gorsuch, J., concurring

This special usage likely emerged out of an international-
law idea widely shared “at the time of the founding”: When
dealing with a foreign sovereign, the “commercial and non-
commercial aspects” of bilateral interactions were “inevita-
bly intertwined” because any intercourse carried potential
diplomatic consequences and could even lead to war. J. Bal-
kin, Commerce, 109 Mich. L. Rev. 1, 25 (2010) (Balkin); see
also Ablavsky 2015, at 1028–1032 (demonstrating that “trade
with the Indians was understood almost solely through this
political and diplomatic lens”); Clinton 1989, at 362–363 (ob-
serving that, at the founding, Indian “trade” was “inter-
twined” with concerns of “peace and diplomacy” and with
the threat of “war”). Nor was that a speculative possibility
when it came to Tribes. As we have seen, even the noncom-
mercial conduct of settlers in the early years was a “contin-
ual source of violent confict [with] Indians,” partially moti-
vating the move away from the Articles of Confederation
Page Proof Pending Publication
framework. M. Fletcher & L. Jurss, Tribal Jurisdiction—A
Historical Bargain, 76 Md. L. Rev. 593, 597 (2017); see also
Ablavsky 2014, at 1033–1038.
At least two terms in the Commerce Clause confrm this
special usage. For one thing, the Constitution speaks of
“Commerce . . . among” when discussing interstate dealings,
but “Commerce with” when addressing dealings with tribal
and foreign sovereigns. Art. I, § 8, cl. 3 (emphasis added).
This language suggests a shared framework for Congress's
Indian and foreign commerce powers and a different one for
its interstate commerce authority. See R. Monette, A New
Federalism for Indian Tribes: The Relationship Between the
United States and Tribes in Light of Our Federalism and
Republican Democracy, 25 U. Toledo L. Rev. 617, 629, n. 82
(1994). More than that, the term “with” suggests that Con-
gress has the authority to manage “all interactions or affairs
. . . with the Indian [T]ribes” and foreign sovereigns—wher-
ever those interactions or affairs may occur. Balkin 23. By
contrast, the term “among” found in the Interstate Com-
322 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

merce Clause most naturally suggests that Congress may
regulate only activities that “extend in their operation be-
yond the bounds of a particular [S]tate” and into another.
Id., at 30. All this goes a long way toward explaining why
“Congress's powers to regulate domestic commerce are more
constrained” than its powers to regulate Indian and foreign
commerce. Id., at 29.
For another thing, as nouns, “States” and “Indian Tribes”
are not alike—and they were not alike at the founding.
“States” generally referred then, as it does today, to a collec-
tion of territorial entities. Not so “Tribes.” That term
necessarily referred to collections of individuals. See C.
Green, Tribes, Nations, States: Our Three Commerce Pow-
ers, 127 Pa. St. L. Rev. 643, 649, 654–669 (2023) (Green); see
also 1 W. Crosskey, Politics and the Constitution in the His-
tory of the United States 77 (1953). Want proof? Dust off
most any founding-era dictionary and look up the defnition
Page Proof Pending Publication
of “Tribe.” See, e. g., 2 J. Ash, The New and Complete Dic-
tionary of the English Language (1775) (“[a] family, a body
of the people distinguished by family or fortune”); 2 S. John-
son, A Dictionary of the English Language (4th ed. 1773)
(“[a] di[s]tinct body of the people as divided by family or for-
tune, or any other characteri[s]tick”); T. Dyche, A New Gen-
eral English Dictionary (14th ed. 1771) (“the particular de-
scendants or people [s]prung from [s]ome noted head, or a
collective number of people in a colony”); N. Bailey, An Uni-
versal Etymological English Dictionary (22d ed. 1770) (“a
[c]ompany of [p]eople dwelling together in the [s]ame [w]ard
or [l]iberty”).
This observation sheds light on why ordinary speakers use
the two terms differently. It explains, for instance, why it
is grammatical to say you are vacationing “in Colorado,” but
not to say you are vacationing “in Navajo.” It explains why
it is sensible to say you are meeting “with some Cherokee,”
but not to say you are meeting “with some New Jersey.”
But this point also helps us make sense of why the Legisla-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 323

Gorsuch, J., concurring

tive Branch may regulate commerce with Indian Tribes dif-
ferently than it may regulate commerce among the States.
Because Tribes are collections of people, the Indian Com-
merce Clause endows Congress with the “authority to regu-
late commerce with Native Americans” as individuals.
McGirt v. Oklahoma, 591 U. S. –––, ––– (2020). By contrast,
Congress's power under the Interstate Commerce Clause
operates only on commerce that involves “more States than
one.” Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 194 (1824). In other
words, commerce that takes place “among” (or between)
two or more territorial units, and not just any commerce
that involves some member of some State. See Green
649–654.
This Court has long appreciated these points of distinction.
For example, in United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407 (1866),
the Court upheld a federal statute that prohibited the sale
of alcohol by non-Indians to Indians—on or off tribal land.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Id., at 416–417. Giving the Indian Commerce Clause its
most natural reading, the Court concluded that the power to
regulate commerce with Indian Tribes must mean the power
to regulate “commerce with the individuals composing those
[T]ribes.” Id., at 417 (emphasis added). For that reason,
too, “[t]he locality of the [commerce could] have nothing to
do with the [scope of the] power.” Id., at 418; see also Hen-
derson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259, 270 (1876) (quot-
ing Holliday and echoing this point in the context of the
Foreign Commerce Clause). More than that, Holliday rec-
ognized that this focus on individuals means that Indian com-
merce must cover “something more” than just economic ex-
change. 3 Wall., at 417 (internal quotation marks omitted).
While it includes “buying and selling and exchanging com-
modities,” it also extends to the entire “intercourse between
the citizens of the United States and those [T]ribes.” Ibid.
That “intercourse,” the Court recognized, is “another branch
of commerce” with Indians, “and a very important one” at
that. Ibid.
324 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

If the Constitution's text left any uncertainty about the
scope of Congress's Indian commerce power, early practice
liquidated it. The First Congress adopted the initial Indian
Trade and Intercourse Act, which prohibited the “sale of
lands made by any Indians” to non-Indians absent a public
treaty. Act of July 22, 1790, ch. 33, § 4, 1 Stat. 138. The
law also extended criminal liability to non-Indians who “com-
mit[ted] any crime upon, or trespass against, the person or
property of any peaceable and friendly Indian” in Indian
country. § 5, ibid. The frst of these provisions arguably
addressed a narrow question of commerce. But the second
“plainly regulated noneconomic” interaction. A. Amar,
America's Constitution and the Yale School of Constitu-
tional Interpretation, 115 Yale L. J. 1997, 2004, n. 25 (2006).
Despite that fact, the Act (and its successors) were “not
controversial exercises of congressional power.” N. New-
ton, Federal Power Over Indians: Its Sources, Scope, and
Page Proof Pending Publication
Limitations, 132 U. Pa. L. Rev. 195, 201, n. 25 (1984). Any
doubt about their validity “would have been quieted by the
[C]ommerce Clause's commitment of commerce with the In-
dian [T]ribes to Congress.” Ibid. As Justice McLean (ri-
ding circuit) recognized, punishing non-Indians for “commit-
ting violence upon the persons or property of the Indians,”
fell “clearly within the scope of the power to regulate com-
merce with the Indian [T]ribes.” United States v. Bailey,
424 F. Cas. 937, 939 (No. 14,495) (CC Tenn. 1834). Of course,
the kinds of criminal trespasses Congress regulated as early
as 1790 were not themselves commercial. But a trespass
against even one individual Indian could disrupt commerce
with that individual. See Green 660–661, and n. 76. By ex-
tension, such a trespass could disrupt dealings with other
members of the Tribe and with other allied Tribes too. See
Balkin 24–26. Recognizing this, the framers entrusted Con-
gress with the power previously exercised by the British
Parliament to “restrain the disorderly and licentious from
intrusions” by non-Indians against even individual Indians—
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 325

Gorsuch, J., concurring

all to preserve functioning channels of trade and intercourse
“with the Indians.” Worcester, 6 Pet., at 552, 556.

3
If Congress's powers under the Indian Commerce Clause
are broader than those it enjoys under the Interstate Com-
merce Clause, “broader” does not mean “plenary.” Even
the federal government's “power to control and manage” re-
lations with the Tribes under the Indian Commerce Clause
comes with “pertinent constitutional restrictions.” United
States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 103, 110 (1935). Congress
cannot, for example, expand the scope of its own power
by arbitrarily labeling non-Indians as Indians. See United
States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28, 46 (1913). Nor can it regu-
late in peripherally related felds merely by identifying some
incidental connection to non-Indians' dealings with Indians.
Instead, Congress's actions must still bear a valid “nexus” to
Page Proof Pending Publication
Indian commerce to withstand constitutional challenge.
Lopez, 514 U. S., at 562 (quoting United States v. Bass, 404
U. S. 336, 347 (1971)). As we have seen, too, “the scope of
congressional authority” over the Tribes under the Indian
Commerce Clause is “best construed as a negative one.”
Pearl 325. Its text “limits the legislative reach to creating
federal restrictions concerning what United States citizens
and States may do in the context of Indian [T]ribes.” Ibid.
Nothing in the Clause grants Congress the affrmative power
to reassign to the federal government inherent sovereign au-
thorities that belong to the Tribes.
In that way, the Indian Commerce Clause confrms, rather
than abridges, principles of tribal sovereignty. As it must.
It is “inconceivable” that a power to regulate non-Indians'
dealings with Indians could be used to “dives[t Tribes] of the
right of self-government.” Worcester, 6 Pet., at 554. Oth-
erwise, a power to manage relations with a party would be-
come an instrument for “annihilating the political existence
of one of the parties.” Ibid. No one in the Nation's forma-
326 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

tive years thought that could be the law. They understood
that Congress could no more use its commerce powers to
legislate away a Tribe than it could a State or a foreign sov-
ereign. Cf. National League of Cities v. Usery, 426 U. S.
833, 855 (1976); Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514,
523–526 (1926); Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 76–77
(1869). The framers appreciated, too, that they possessed
no more “authority to delegate to the national government
power to regulate the [T]ribes directly” than they possessed
authority to “delegate power to the federal government over
other peoples who were not part of the federal union.”
Clinton 2002, at 254; see also R. Barsh, Book Review, Felix
S. Cohen's Handbook of Federal Indian Law, 1982 ed., 57
Wash. L. Rev. 799, 803 (1982).

D
As we have now seen, the Constitution refected a care-
Page Proof Pending Publication
fully considered balance between tribal, state, and federal
powers. That scheme predated the founding and it per-
sisted long after. It is not, however, the balance this Court
always maintained in the years since. More than a little
fault for that fact lies with a doctrinal misstep. In the late
19th century, this Court misplaced the original meaning of
the Indian Commerce Clause. That error sent this Court's
Indian-law jurisprudence into a tailspin from which it has
only recently begun to recover. Understanding that error—
and the steps this Court has taken to correct it—are the last
missing pieces of the puzzle.
In 1885, during the period of assimilationist federal policy,
Congress enacted the Indian Major Crimes Act, § 9, 23 Stat.
385. Among other things, that law extended federal-court
jurisdiction over various crimes committed by Indians
against Indians on tribal lands. Ibid. In United States v.
Kagama, 118 U. S. 375 (1886), this Court upheld the constitu-
tionality of that Act. In the process, though, it stepped off
the doctrinal trail. Instead of examining the text and his-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 327

Gorsuch, J., concurring

tory of the Indian Commerce Clause, the Court offered a
free-foating and purposivist account of the Constitution, de-
scribing it as extending broad “power [to] the General Gov-
ernment” over tribal affairs. Id., at 384. Building on that
move, the Court would later come to describe the federal
power over the Tribes as “plenary.” See, e. g., Winton v.
Amos, 255 U. S. 373, 391 (1921); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187
U. S. 553, 565 (1903).
Perhaps the Court meant well. Surely many of its so-
called “plenary power” cases reached results explainable
under a proper reading of the Constitution's enumerated
powers. Maybe the turn of phrase even made some sense:
Congress's power with regard to the Tribes is “plenary” in
that it leaves no room for State involvement. See Ablavsky
2015, at 1014 (“[T]he Court use[d] the term [plenary] inter-
changeably with `exclusive' ”). But as sometimes happens
when this Court elides text and original meaning in favor of
Page Proof Pending Publication
broad pronouncements about the Constitution's purposes,
the plenary-power idea baked in the prejudices of the day.
Cf. Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537 (1896). The Court sug-
gested that the federal government's total power over the
Tribes derived from its supposedly inherent right to “enforce
its laws” over “th[e] remnants of a race once powerful, now
weak.” Kagama, 118 U. S., at 384–385. Of course, nothing
of the sort follows from “a reasoned analysis derived from
the text [or] history . . . of the United States Constitution.”
Clinton 2002, at 163. Instead, the plenary-power idea “con-
stituted an unprincipled assertion of raw federal authority.”
Ibid. It rested on nothing more than judicial claims about
putative constitutional purposes that aligned with contempo-
rary policy preferences.
Nor was anachronistic language the only consequence of
this Court's abandonment of the Constitution's original
meaning. During what has been called the “high plenary
power era of U. S. Indian law,” this Court sometimes took
the word “plenary” pretty literally. S. Cleveland, Powers
328 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

Inherent in Sovereignty: Indians, Aliens, Territories, and
the Nineteenth Century Origins of Plenary Power Over For-
eign Affairs, 81 Texas L. Rev. 1, 62 (2002) (Cleveland). It
assumed that Congress possesses a “virtually unlimited au-
thority to regulate [T]ribes” in every respect. M. Steele,
Plenary Power, Political Questions, and Sovereignty in In-
dian Affairs, 63 UCLA L. Rev. 666, 670 (2016); see Cleveland
62–74. Perhaps most notably, the Court even suggested
that Congress's “plenary authority” might allow it to “limit,
modify or eliminate the powers of local self-government
which the [T]ribes otherwise possess.” Santa Clara Pueblo
v. Martinez, 436 U. S. 49, 56–57 (1978). It is an “inconceiv-
able” suggestion for anyone who takes the Constitution's
original meaning seriously. Worcester, 6 Pet., at 554.
The Court's atextual and ahistorical plenary-power move
did not just serve to expand the scope of federal power over
the Tribes. It also had predictable downstream effects on
Page Proof Pending Publication
the relationship between States and Tribes. As Congress
assumed new power to intrude on tribal sovereignty, the
Constitution's “concomitant jurisdictional limit on the reach
of state law” began to wane. McClanahan, 411 U. S., at 171.
It is not hard to draw a through-line between these develop-
ments. This Court itself has acknowledged that its plenary-
power cases embodied a “trend . . . away from the idea of
inherent Indian sovereignty as a bar to state jurisdiction.”
Id., at 172, and n. 7.
It is no coincidence either that this Court's plenary-power
jurisprudence emerged in the same era as Indian boarding
schools and other assimilationist policies. See D. Moore &
M. Steele, Revitalizing Tribal Sovereignty in Treatymaking,
97 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 137, 142 (2022). Rather, “[f]ederal
bureaucratic control over Indian leadership and governments
ran parallel to the government's control over Indian
children” during this period. Fletcher & Singel 930. In-
dian boarding schools and other intrusive “federal educa-
tional programs . . . could not have been implemented with-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 329

Gorsuch, J., concurring

out federal control of reservation governance.” Ibid. Nor
could any of these federal intrusions on internal tribal affairs
have been possible without this Court's plenary-power
misadventure.
I do not mean to overstate the point. Even in the heyday
of the plenary-power theory, this Court never doubted that
Tribes retain a variety of self-government powers. It has
always acknowledged that Tribes are “a separate people,
with the power of regulating their internal and social rela-
tions.” Kagama, 118 U. S., at 381–382. They may “make
their own substantive law in internal matters.” Martinez,
436 U. S., at 55. They may defne their own membership.
Roff, 168 U. S., at 222. They may set probate rules of their
choice. Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, 29 (1899). And—es-
pecially relevant here—they may handle their own family-
law matters, Fisher v. District Court of Sixteenth Judicial
Dist. of Mont., 424 U. S. 382, 387 (1976) (per curiam), and
Page Proof Pending Publication
domestic disputes, United States v. Quiver, 241 U. S. 602, 605
(1916). But for a period at least, this Court let itself drift
from the “basic policy of Worcester,” and with it the Consti-
tution's promise of tribal sovereignty. Williams v. Lee, 358
U. S. 217, 219 (1959).
Doubtless, too, the rise of the plenary-power theory in-
jected incoherence into our Indian-law jurisprudence. Many
scholars have commented on it. See, e. g., P. Frickey, Doc-
trine, Context, Institutional Relationships, and Commentary:
The Malaise of Federal Indian Law Through the Lens of
Lone Wolf, 38 Tulsa L. Rev. 5, 9 (2002) (describing our doc-
trine as “riddled with . . . inconsistency”); F. Pommersheim,
A Path Near the Clearing: An Essay on Constitutional Ad-
judication in Tribal Courts, 27 Gonz. L. Rev. 393, 403 (1991)
(calling our doctrine “bifurcated, if not fully schizophrenic”).
So have Members of this Court. Justice Thomas has put
the problem well: “[M]uch of the confusion refected in our
precedent arises from two largely incompatible” assump-
tions: That Congress “can regulate virtually every aspect of
330 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

the [T]ribes”; and that “Indian [T]ribes retain inherent sov-
ereignty.” Lara, 541 U. S., at 214–215 (opinion concurring in
judgment). Those two propositions of course clash. That
is because only one is true. Yes, Tribes retain the inherent
sovereignty the Constitution left for them. But no, Con-
gress does not possess power to “calibrate the `metes and
bounds of tribal sovereignty.' ” Ibid.
In recent years, this Court has begun to correct its mis-
take. Increasingly, it has emphasized original meaning in
constitutional interpretation. See, e. g., Kennedy v. Bremer-
ton School Dist., 597 U. S. 507, 535–536 (2022); Ramos v.
Louisiana, 590 U. S. –––, –––, ––– – ––– (2020). In the proc-
ess, it has come again to recognize the Indian Commerce
Clause provides the federal government only so much
“power to deal with the Indian [T]ribes.” Mancari, 417
U. S., at 551–552. But to date, these corrective steps have
not yielded all they should. While this Court has stopped
Page Proof Pending Publication
overreading its own plenary-power precedents, it has yet to
recover fully the original meaning of the Indian Commerce
Clause.
Today, the Court takes further steps in the right direction.
It recognizes that Congress's powers with respect to the
Tribes “derive from the Constitution, not the atmosphere.”
Ante, at 273. It engages in a robust history-driven analysis
of the various fonts of congressional authority without rely-
ing only on platitudes about plenary power. Ante, at 273–
276. It notes that, as an original matter, the Indian Com-
merce Clause is “broad” and covers more than garden-vari-
ety commercial activity. Ante, at 276–280. In the process,
it reaffrms that “ `commerce with the Indian [T]ribes' ” nec-
essarily covers commerce with “Indians as individuals.”
Ante, at 278.
No less importantly, the Court acknowledges what the fed-
eral government cannot do. “Article I gives Congress a se-
ries of enumerated powers, not a series of blank checks.”
Ante, at 276. And that means that “Congress's authority to
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 331

Gorsuch, J., concurring

legislate with respect to Indians is not unbounded,” but in-
stead comes with concrete limitations. Ibid. To resolve
the present dispute, the Court understandably sees no need
to demarcate those limitations further. But I hope that, in
time, it will follow the implications of today's decision where
they lead and return us to the original bargain struck in the
Constitution—and, with it, the respect for Indian sover-
eignty it entails.
III
With all the historical pieces of this puzzle assembled, only
one task remains. You must decide for yourself if ICWA
passes constitutional muster.
By now, the full picture has come into view and it is easy to
see why ICWA must stand. Under our Constitution, Tribes
remain independent sovereigns responsible for governing
their own affairs. And as this Court has long recognized,
domestic law arrangements fall within Tribes' traditional
Page Proof Pending Publication
powers of self-governance. See, e. g., Fisher, 424 U. S., at
387; Quiver, 241 U. S., at 605. As “ `a separate people' ”
Tribes may “ `regulat[e] their internal and social relations' ”
as they wish. Wheeler, 435 U. S., at 322 (quoting Kagama,
118 U. S., at 381–382). In enacting ICWA, Congress af-
frmed this understanding. It recognized that “there is no
resource that is more vital to the continued existence and
integrity of Indian [T]ribes than their children.” 25 U. S. C.
§ 1901(3). Yet it also recognized that the mass-removal of
Indian children by States and other outsiders threatened the
“continued existence and integrity of Indian [T]ribes.” Ibid.;
see also § 1901(4). By setting out to eliminate that practice,
Congress sought to preserve the Indian-law bargain written
into the Constitution's text by securing the continued viabil-
ity of the “third sovereign.” S. O'Connor, Remark, Lessons
From the Third Sovereign: Indian Tribal Courts, 33 Tulsa
L. J. 1 (1997).
No doubt, ICWA sharply limits the ability of States to im-
pose their own family-law policies on tribal members. But
332 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Gorsuch, J., concurring

as we have seen, state intrusions on tribal authority have
been a recurring theme throughout American history. See
Ablavsky 2014, at 1009–1037. Long ago, those intrusions led
the framers to abandon the loophole-ridden Indian affairs
provision in the Articles of Confederation and adopt in the
Constitution a different arrangement that commits the man-
agement of tribal relations solely to the federal government.
Id., at 1038–1051; see also Clinton 1995, at 1098–1165. Rec-
ognizing as much, this Court has consistently reaffrmed
the Tribes' “immunity from state and local control.” Ari-
zona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe of Ariz., 463 U. S. 545,
571 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted). If that
immunity means anything, it must mean that States and oth-
ers cannot use their own laws to displace federal Indian
policy.
Nor is there any serious question that Congress has the
power under the Indian Commerce Clause to enact protec-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tions against the removal of Indian children. Thankfully,
Indian children are not (these days) units of commerce. Cf.
Fletcher & Singel 897–898 (describing an early practice of
enslaving Indian children). But at its core, ICWA restricts
how non-Indians (States and private individuals) may engage
with Indians. And, as we have seen, that falls in the heart-
land of Congress's constitutional authority. Recall that the
very first Congresses punished non-Indians who “com-
mit[ted] any crime upon [any] friendly Indian.” Act of July
22, 1790, ch. 33, § 5, 1 Stat. 138. ICWA operates in much the
same way. The mass removal of Indian children by States
and private parties, no less than a pattern of criminal tres-
passes by States and private parties, directly interferes with
tribal intercourse. More than that, it threatens the Tribes'
“political existence.” Worcester, 6 Pet., at 536. And at the
risk of stating the obvious, Indian commerce is hard to main-
tain if there are no Indian communities left to do commerce
with.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 333

Kavanaugh, J., concurring

IV
Often, Native American Tribes have come to this Court
seeking justice only to leave with bowed heads and empty
hands. But that is not because this Court has no justice to
offer them. Our Constitution reserves for the Tribes a
place—an enduring place—in the structure of American life.
It promises them sovereignty for as long as they wish to
keep it. And it secures that promise by divesting States
of authority over Indian affairs and by giving the federal
government certain signifcant (but limited and enumerated)
powers aimed at building a lasting peace. In adopting the
Indian Child Welfare Act, Congress exercised that lawful au-
thority to secure the right of Indian parents to raise their
families as they please; the right of Indian children to grow
in their culture; and the right of Indian communities to resist
fading into the twilight of history. All of that is in keeping
with the Constitution's original design.
Page
Justice Proof Pending
Kavanaugh, concurring. Publication
I join the Court's opinion in full. I write separately to
emphasize that the Court today does not address or decide
the equal protection issue that can arise when the Indian
Child Welfare Act is applied in individual foster care or adop-
tion proceedings. See ante, at 291–292, 294, n. 10. As the
Court explains, the plaintiffs in this federal-court suit
against federal parties lack standing to raise the equal protec-
tion issue. So the equal protection issue remains undecided.
In my view, the equal protection issue is serious. Under
the Act, a child in foster care or adoption proceedings may
in some cases be denied a particular placement because of
the child's race—even if the placement is otherwise deter-
mined to be in the child's best interests. And a prospective
foster or adoptive parent may in some cases be denied the
opportunity to foster or adopt a child because of the prospec-
tive parent's race. Those scenarios raise signifcant ques-
334 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

tions under bedrock equal protection principles and this
Court's precedents. See Palmore v. Sidoti, 466 U. S. 429
(1984). Courts, including ultimately this Court, will be able
to address the equal protection issue when it is properly
raised by a plaintiff with standing—for example, by a pro-
spective foster or adoptive parent or child in a case arising
out of a state-court foster care or adoption proceeding. See
ante, at 291–292, 294, n. 10.

Justice Thomas, dissenting.
These cases concern the Federal Government's attempt to
regulate child-welfare proceedings in state courts. That
should raise alarm bells. Our Federal “[G]overnment is ac-
knowledged by all to be one of enumerated powers,” having
only those powers that the Constitution confers expressly
or by necessary implication. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 405 (1819). All other powers (like family or
Page Proof Pending Publication
criminal law) generally remain with the States. The Fed-
eral Government thus lacks a general police power to regu-
late state family law.
However, in the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), Con-
gress ignored the normal limits on the Federal Government's
power and prescribed rules to regulate state child custody
proceedings in one circumstance: when the child involved
happens to be an Indian. As the majority acknowledges,
ICWA often overrides state family law by dictating that
state courts place Indian children with Indian caretakers
even if doing so is not in the child's best interest. See ante,
at 264. It imposes heightened standards before removing
Indian children from unsafe environments. See ante, at 266.
And it allows tribes to unilaterally enroll Indian children
and then intervene in their custody proceedings. See ante,
at 267, 268–270.
In the normal course, we would say that the Federal Gov-
ernment has no authority to enact any of this. Yet the ma-
jority declines to hold that ICWA is unconstitutional, reason-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 335

Thomas, J., dissenting

ing that the petitioners before us have not borne their
burden of showing how Congress exceeded its powers. This
gets things backwards. When Congress has so clearly in-
truded upon a longstanding domain of exclusive state pow-
ers, we must ask not whether a constitutional provision pro-
hibits that intrusion, but whether a constitutional provision
authorizes it.
The majority and respondents gesture to a smorgasbord
of constitutional hooks to support ICWA; not one of them
works. First, the Indian Commerce Clause is about com-
merce, not children. See Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, 570
U. S. 637, 659–665 (2013) (Thomas, J., concurring). Second,
the Treaty Clause does no work because ICWA is not based
on any treaty. Third, the foreign-affairs powers (what the
majority terms “structural principles”) inherent in the Fed-
eral Government have no application to regulating the do-
mestic child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens living
within the jurisdiction of States.
Page Proof Pending Publication
I would go no further. But, as the majority notes, the
Court's precedents have repeatedly referred to a “plenary
power” that Congress possesses over Indian affairs, as well
as a general “trust” relationship with the Indians. I have
searched in vain for any constitutional basis for such a ple-
nary power, which appears to have been born of loose lan-
guage and judicial ipse dixit. And, even taking the Court's
precedents as given, there is no reason to extend this “ple-
nary power” to the situation before us today: regulating
state-court child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens, who
may never have even set foot on Indian lands, merely be-
cause the child involved happens to be an Indian.

I
State courts usually apply state law when resolving child
custody issues. This would normally be true for most Indi-
ans, too. Today, Indians are citizens of the United States;
the vast majority of them do not live on any reservation or
336 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Indian lands, but live (as most citizens) on lands that are
wholly within a State's jurisdiction. See ch. 233, 43 Stat.
253; Dept. of Health and Human Services, Offce of Minority
Health, Profle: American Indian/Alaska Native (Feb. 24,
2023), https://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/ browse.aspx?lvl=
3&lvlid=62 (87% live off Indian lands). Thus, one might ex-
pect that when a child custody issue regarding an Indian
child arises in a state court, that court would apply the same
laws that it would for any other citizen.
But ICWA displaces the normal state laws governing child
custody when it comes to only one group of citizens: Indian
children. ICWA defnes “Indian child” capaciously: It in-
cludes not only children who are members of an Indian tribe,
but also those children who are merely eligible for member-
ship in a tribe and are the biological child of a tribal member.
See 25 U. S. C. § 1903(4). If the child resides on Indian tribal
lands, then the Indian tribal court has jurisdiction.
Page Proof Pending Publication
§ 1911(a). But, if the child resides within a State, ICWA re-
quires state courts to transfer any proceedings to a tribal
court, absent “good cause to the contrary,” upon petition by
the child's parent, custodian, or tribe. § 1911(b).
Even when the state court retains the proceedings, ICWA
replaces state law with a strict set of federal rules. For
example, if the State fears that a child is suffering physical
or sexual abuse, it must clear a set of hurdles before placing
the child in foster care or terminating the parent's rights.
§§ 1912(a)–(e). If the parent wishes to voluntarily relinquish
his or her rights and facilitate an adoption, the child's tribe
has a right to intervene “at any point” and to collaterally
attack the court's decree. §§ 1911(c), 1914. Moreover, it ap-
pears that tribes can enroll children unilaterally, without the
parent's consent. Accordingly, even if the biological par-
ents, the child, the adoptive parents, and the court all agree
on what is best for the child, the tribe can intervene at the
eleventh hour, without any consent from the parents or child,
and block the proceedings. In fact, that is exactly what hap-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 337

Thomas, J., dissenting

pened here—the children were unilaterally designated as
tribal members by tribes, which then sought to block adop-
tions that everyone else thought were best for the children
involved. And, even though some of those adoptions have
now been fnalized, it appears that the tribes can collaterally
attack them for an indefnite period of time. § 1914.
Besides these procedural hurdles, ICWA dictates the pref-
erences a court must adhere to when deciding where to place
the child. In the typical case, the primary consideration
would be the best interests of that child. E. g., Tex. Fam.
Code Ann. § 153.002 (West 2014); American Law Institute,
Principles of the Law of Family Dissolution § 2.02 (2002);
Friederwitzer v. Friederwitzer, 55 N. Y. 2d 89, 92, 432 N. E.
2d 765, 767 (1982); Karner v. McMahon, 433 Pa. Super. 290,
302, 640 A. 2d 926, 932 (1994). That makes sense; as the
majority notes, these children are some of the most vulnera-
ble among us, and their interests should be a court's primary
concern. See ante, at 1. But ICWA displaces that stand-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ard with its own hierarchy of preferences, requiring a court
to prefer any placements with (1) a member of the child's
extended family; (2) other members of the child's tribe; and
(3) other Indian families of any tribe, anywhere in the coun-
try. § 1915(a). Similar rules govern foster-care place-
ments. § 1915(b). As the majority notes, these preferences
collectively ensure that any Indian from any tribe in the coun-
try outranks all non-Indians for adopting and fostering those
whom ICWA deems to be Indian children. See ante, at 267.
Again, these detailed rules govern the child custody pro-
ceedings of U. S. citizens in state courts only because the
child is also either a member of an Indian tribe or merely
eligible for membership in a tribe. (The child or parents
need never have set foot on Indian lands or have any desire
to affliate themselves with a tribe.1) The child and his or
1
An analogous law might be if the Federal Government tried to regulate
the child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens who are eligible for Russian,
Mexican, Israeli, or Irish citizenship.
338 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

her biological parents and relatives can all support an adop-
tion, yet ICWA may stand in the way.
Normally, we would say that the Federal Government
plainly lacks the authority to enact a law like this. The only
question is thus whether Congress has some additional au-
thority that allows it to regulate the adoption process
for U. S. citizens in state courts merely because the child
involved happens to be an Indian. To answer that question,
I turn first to the text and original meaning of the
Constitution.
II
To explain the original understanding of the Constitution's
enumerated powers with regard to Indians, I start with our
Nation's Founding-era dealings with Indian tribes. Those
early interactions underscore that the Constitution conferred
specifc, enumerated powers on the Federal Government
which aimed at specifc problems that the Nation faced under
Page Proof Pending Publication
the Articles of Confederation. The new Federal Govern-
ment's actions with respect to Indian tribes are easily
explained by those enumerated powers. Meanwhile, the
States continued to enjoy substantial authority with regard
to tribes. At each turn, history and constitutional text thus
point to a set of enumerated powers that can be applied to
Indian tribes—not some sort of amorphous, unlimited power
than can be applied to displace all state laws when it comes
to Indians.
A
Before the Revolution, most of the Thirteen Colonies
adopted their own regulations governing Indian trade. See
Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 660 (Thomas, J., concurring);
R. Natelson, The Original Understanding of the Indian Com-
merce Clause, 85 Denver U. L. Rev. 201, 219, and n. 121
(2007) (Natelson) (collecting laws). These regulations were
necessary because colonial traders abused their Indian trad-
ing partners, often provoking violent Indian retaliation.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 339

Thomas, J., dissenting

See Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 660–661; 1 F. Prucha, The
Great Father 18–21 (1984) (Prucha). Most colonial govern-
ments thus imposed licensing systems of some form both to
protect Indians and to maintain trading relationships with
them. See id., at 19. However, the colonial laws were not
uniform, leading to rivalries between the Colonies, corrup-
tion, fraud, and other abuses by traders. Id., at 21. Then,
once the Nation had achieved independence, it “faced innu-
merable diffculties,” id., at 46, from fnding ways to uphold
its treaties with foreign nations to economic upheaval at
home, J. Marshall, The Life of George Washington 313–316
(R. Faulkner & P. Carrese eds. 2000). Peace with the Indi-
ans, rather than conficts sparked by unscrupulous traders,
was imperative. Prucha 46.
The Articles of Confederation aimed to meet that need in
part by giving Congress “the sole and exclusive right and
power of . . . regulating the trade and managing all affairs
with the Indians.” Art. IX, cl. 4. However, that broad
Page Proof Pending Publication
power came with two limitations: First, the Indians could
not be “members of any of the states.” Ibid. And, second,
“the legislative right of any state within its own limits [could
not] be infringed or violated.” Ibid. In part because of
those limitations, the Articles' solution proved to be less than
ideal. As James Madison would later write, the two limits
were “obscure and contradictory”; the new Nation had “not
yet settled” on which Indians were “members” of a State or
which state “legislative right[s]” could not be “infringe[d].”
The Federalist No. 42, pp. 268–269 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).2
More broadly, the Confederation Congress lacked any robust
authority to enforce congressional laws or treaties (in this or
any other domain). For example, it had no power to make
laws supreme over state law; there was no executive power
2
For example, though it was not exactly settled what it meant for an
Indian to be a “member” of a State, the defnition often turned on whether
the Indian paid taxes in or was a citizen of that State. Adoptive Couple
v. Baby Girl, 570 U. S. 637, 662, n. 2 (2013) (Thomas, J., concurring).
340 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

independent of the States; and state offcers were not bound
by oath to support the Articles.
Under the Articles, Congress entered treaties with vari-
ous tribes and sought to maintain a mostly peaceful relation-
ship with the Indians—but its authority was undermined at
every turn. See Prucha 44–50. Again and again, Congress
entered treaties with Indians that established boundary lines
and lands set apart for the Indians, and again and again,
frontier settlers encroached on Indian territory and com-
mitted acts that violated those treaties. Id., at 46–48; F.
Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law § 1.02[3], pp. 21–
22 (2012) (Cohen). Such violations were taken seriously; as
offenses against “the laws of nations,” they provoked the In-
dians and provided “just causes of war.” The Federalist No.
3, at 44 (J. Jay); see also 2 E. de Vattel, The Law of Nations
§§ 71–76, pp. 161–163 (J. Chitty ed. 1876).
Yet the Confederation Congress was almost powerless to
Page Proof Pending Publication
stop these abuses. After a committee noted confusion about
the extent of congressional power over Indian affairs in 1787,
Congress had to ask the States for their cooperation in curb-
ing the abuses that their own citizens were perpetrating.
Prucha 48–49. The weakness of Congress meant, however,
that “federal attempts to check state intrusions were often
ignored.” Cohen § 1.02[3], at 22. The result was that, by
the time of the Constitutional Convention, “the young nation
[stood on] the brink of Indian warfare on several fronts.”
Ibid. Such a war, feared some Founders, could be destruc-
tive to the fedgling Republic. See G. Ablavsky, The Savage
Constitution, 63 Duke L. J. 999, 1033 (2014).
The Constitution addressed those problems in several
ways. First and most plainly, the Constitution made all fed-
eral treaties and laws “the supreme Law of the Land,” not-
withstanding the laws of any State. Art. VI. It empow-
ered Congress not only to “declare War,” but also to “raise
and support Armies,” “provide and maintain a Navy,” and
“provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 341

Thomas, J., dissenting

the Union.” Art. I, § 8. It enabled Congress to “defne and
punish . . . Offences against the Law of Nations.” Ibid.
And it granted Congress the authority to “make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper” for carrying out any of
those powers. Ibid.
The Constitution also provided one power specifc to In-
dian tribes: the power “[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the
Indian Tribes.” § 8, cl. 3. That power, however, came very
late in the drafting process and was narrower than initially
proposed. See L. Updike Toler, The Missing Indian Affairs
Clause, 88 U. Chi. L. Rev. 413, 444–464 (2021) (Toler). At
two separate points, James Madison and John Rutledge pro-
posed a power to “ `regulate affairs with the Indians,' ” a
provision that would have mirrored the Articles. Id., at
447–448, 464–465 (emphasis added). Neither proposal re-
ceived much debate, and both were rejected. See id., at
464–466. Instead, the Convention opted to include Indian
Page Proof Pending Publication
tribes in a provision that had initially been drafted to include
only power to “ `regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several States.' ” See ibid. The Convention
thus expanded the Commerce Clause to the form we know
today, empowering Congress to “ `regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.' ” Id., at 466.
On top of those powers, one more warrants note. As I
have written previously, the Constitution vests the President
with certain foreign-affairs powers including “[t]he executive
Power,” which includes a residual authority over war, peace,
and foreign interactions. See Art. II; Zivotofsky v. Kerry,
576 U. S. 1, 35–40 (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment
in part and dissenting in part); United States v. Curtiss-
Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 319 (1936). From the
start, Presidents have exercised foreign-affairs powers not
specifcally enumerated on matters ranging from maintain-
ing the peace and issuing passports to communicating with
foreign governments and repelling sudden attacks on the
342 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Nation. S. Prakash, Imperial From the Beginning 119–132
(2015). In his Neutrality Proclamation, for example, Presi-
dent Washington declared that the United States would
remain strictly neutral in the then-ongoing war between
England and France. See A Proclamation (Apr. 22, 1793),
reprinted in 1 American State Papers 140 (W. Lowrie & M.
Clarke eds. 1833). Congress supported his Proclamation by
imposing criminal penalties on anyone who, among other
things, went “beyond the limits or jurisdiction of the United
States with intent to be enlisted or entered in the service of
any foreign prince or state.” § 2, 1 Stat. 383. While this
Court has at times debated whether those residual foreign-
affairs powers are located in the Executive exclusively or the
Federal Government more broadly, see Zivotofsky, 576 U. S.,
at 20–22, it has long recognized the powers as arising from
our constitutional framework and residing at the federal
level, see, e. g., Curtiss-Wright, 299 U. S., at 318.

Page Proof Pending
B Publication
After the Constitution's ratifcation, the new Federal Gov-
ernment exercised its enumerated powers with regard to In-
dian tribes. To start, the Government embarked on an era
of treaty-making with Indian tribes. See Cohen § 1.03[1],
at 23. That treaty-focused policy refected the Washington
administration's view that Indian tribes were best dealt with
as mostly “foreign nations,” with an eye toward peace lest
frontier conficts continue to plague the new Nation. See
Letter from H. Knox to G. Washington (July 7, 1789), re-
printed in 3 Papers of George Washington 138 (W. Abbot ed.
1989); see also Toler 433–434. Many early treaties thus
“were treaties of peace and friendship, often providing for
the restoration or exchange of prisoners” or including “mu-
tual assistance pacts.” Cohen § 1.03[1], at 25 (footnote omit-
ted). Others dealt with passports and commercial affairs.
Id., at 25–26. And many attested to the tribes' status as
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 343

Thomas, J., dissenting

dependent nations, with the United States sometimes prom-
ising to protect the tribe. Id., at 26.
Unlike the Confederation Congress, the new Federal Gov-
ernment was no longer powerless to maintain and enforce
its treaties. Exercising its new military powers, the First
Congress established a Department of War and vested the
Department with authority over “Indian affairs.” See § 1, 1
Stat. 50. War Secretary Henry Knox then called for, and
obtained, “a line of garrisons in the Indian Country, in order
to enforce the treaties and maintain the peace of the fron-
tier.” F. Prucha, American Indian Policy in the Formative
Years 61 (1962) (Prucha, American Indian Policy). Those
garrisons remained for years, working to prevent American
settlers from illegally entering Indian country or otherwise
stirring up conficts. Id., at 61–63.
Meanwhile, President Washington exercised his diplomatic
authority to maintain peace on the frontier. For example,
Page Proof Pending Publication
when Pennsylvania settlers killed two members of the Sen-
eca Nation, Washington appointed a federal agent to meet
with the Seneca and “ `give the strongest assurances of the
friendship of the United States towards that Tribe; and to
make pecuniary satisfaction.' ” Letter to T. Miffin (Sept. 4,
1790), reprinted in 6 Papers of George Washington: Presiden-
tial Series 396 (D. Twohig ed. 1996). And, in line with his
executive authority to “regulate all intercourse with foreign
powers,” see 4 J. Elliot, Debates on the Constitution 126–127
(1863), Washington instructed Pennsylvania's Governor to
refer the Seneca “ `to the Executive of the United States, as
possessing the only authority of regulating an intercourse
with them, and redressing their grievances,' ” Letter to T.
Miffin, in 3 Papers of George Washington 396.
Congress too did its part, enacting a series of acts “to reg-
ulate Trade and Intercourse with the Indian Tribes, and to
preserve Peace on the Frontiers.” See, e. g., 1 Stat. 469; 2
Stat. 139; 1 Stat. 137 (emphasis deleted). Those “Trade and
344 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Intercourse Acts” underscored the Federal Government's
new powers and worked to establish a policy of peace and
trade with Indian tribes. For example, the Acts threatened
criminal penalties on any U. S. citizen who entered Indian
lands and there committed crimes against Indians. See,
e. g., id., at 137; see also Prucha, American Indian Policy 188–
193. Though opponents of those provisions contended that
they were unnecessary because state laws and some treaties
already provided for criminal punishment, proponents ex-
plained that the provisions were needed for those who went
“out of the limits of any of the States” and committed crimes
that may not have been covered by a particular treaty. See
3 Annals of Cong. 751 (1792).3 Thus, as with the border gar-
risons, these provisions were meant as “an answer to the
charge that” the United States did not respect its treaties
with Indian tribes, Prucha 92, while also securing “peace
with the Indian tribes” on the frontier, 3 Annals of Cong.
751. In that respect, they were much like the criminal pen-
Page Proof Pending Publication
alties that Congress levied on those who went abroad and
enlisted with England or France and thereby threatened the
United States' peace with those nations. See 1 Stat. 383.
The Trade and Intercourse Acts further hammered out the
Nation's diplomatic and territorial stance with respect to the
Indian tribes. For example, refecting the Federal Govern-
ment's powers over commerce, territories, and foreign af-
fairs, the Acts forbade U. S. citizens from purchasing, survey-
ing, or settling on Indian lands. E. g., id., at 329–330. One
of the Acts, enacted in 1796, then drew a boundary line with
Indian tribes and required citizens to have passports when

3
As refected in the debates on this statute, a majority of Congress
thought that “the power of the General Government to legislate in all the
territory belonging to the Union, not within the limits of any particular
State, cannot be doubted; if the Government cannot make laws to restrain
persons from going out of the limits of any of the States, and commit
murders and depredations, it would be in vain to expect any peace with
the Indian tribes.” 3 Annals of Cong. 751.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 345

Thomas, J., dissenting

entering Indian lands. Id., at 470. If an Indian came over
the boundary line and committed a crime against a U. S.
citizen, the Acts authorized the President to demand satis-
faction from the tribe (while specifying that the Indian could
be arrested “within the limits of any state”). See, e. g.,
§ 14, id., at 472–473. Then, to prevent the tribes from ally-
ing themselves with European powers, Congress forbade peo-
ple from conveying messages to Indian tribes from foreign
states. 2 Stat. 6.
Congress also, of course, regulated trade with the Indian
tribes. For example, the Acts continued the colonial prac-
tice of requiring licenses to trade with Indians and threat-
ened penalties on anyone who sold or purchased goods from
Indians without a license. See, e. g., 1 Stat. 329–330. To
facilitate trade, Congress also established a series of trading
houses on the frontiers, appropriating federal funds to set up
the houses and purchase goods from Indians. See, e. g., id.,
Page Proof Pending Publication
at 443, 452–453; Ch. 39, 2 Stat. 173. And, “to promote civili-
zation” and secure the tribes' “friendship,” Congress appro-
priated funds for the President to furnish gifts to the Indi-
ans. See, e. g., § 13, 1 Stat. 472.
To be sure, these measures were not entirely successful,
and the Federal Government's policy was not always one of
peace. American frontiersmen continued to push into In-
dian lands, and the military garrisons sometimes could not
stem the tide. See Prucha 62–63, 112. The Indians (often
supported by the British) engaged in intermittent raids and
attacks against American settlers, and the Federal Govern-
ment and several confederated tribes fought a signifcant
war in the Northwest Territories. Id., at 63–67; J. Yoo, Cri-
sis and Command 75–79 (2011); M. Fletcher & W. Singel, In-
dian Children and the Federal-Tribal Trust Relationship, 95
Neb. L. Rev. 885, 904–905 (2017) (Fletcher & Singel). Addi-
tionally, the Federal Government often played tribes against
each other to obtain land concessions by treaty, leading many
tribes (again goaded by the British) to take up arms against
346 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

the United States in the War of 1812. See Cohen § 1.03[3],
at 39–41. In the aftermath of that confict, Presidents Mon-
roe and John Quincy Adams generally pursued a policy of
assimilation or removing Indians west with their consent.
Prucha, American Indian Policy 226–233. That policy then
gave way to a more forceful policy of removing Indians west,
particularly during the administration of President Andrew
Jackson. Id., at 233–249; Cohen § 1.03[4], at 41–51; Prucha
193–195, 239–240.
But, at least until the War of 1812 (and, in large part, in
the years after it), Founding-era Presidents' primary goals
in this area were to achieve peace with the Indians, sustain
trade with them, and obtain Indian lands through treaties.
See id., at 32–33, 59, 61, 93. By establishing a peaceful and
trade-oriented relationship with the Indians, the new coun-
try further hoped to exclude British Canada and other Euro-
pean powers that might seek alliances with the Indian tribes.
See Cohen § 1.03[3], at 37–38, n. 102; 2 Stat. 6. During that
Page Proof Pending Publication
time, the Federal Government's relationship with the Indi-
ans thus remained (as it did for nearly the frst hundred
years of our Nation) “ `more an aspect of military and foreign
policy' ” than simple domestic law. See United States v.
Lara, 541 U. S. 193, 201 (2004).

C
Notably, neither President Washington nor the frst Con-
gresses were particularly “concerned with the remnants of
tribes that had been absorbed by the states and had come
under their direction and control.” Prucha 92. The frst
Trade and Intercourse Acts specifcally provided that “noth-
ing in this act shall be construed to prevent any trade or
intercourse with Indians living on lands surrounded by set-
tlements of the citizens of the United States, and being
within the jurisdiction of any of the individual states.” § 13,
1 Stat. 331; § 19, id., at 474. And the Constitution's Appor-
tionment Clause provided that representatives would be ap-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 347

Thomas, J., dissenting

portioned by the population of each State, “excluding Indians
not taxed”—implying that there were Indians who paid
taxes and were incorporated into the bodies politic of the
States. Art. I, § 2, cl. 3.
The States accordingly enacted numerous laws to regulate
Indians within their territorial boundaries, as well as those
Indians' interactions with the States' citizens. See, e. g.,
D. Rosen, American Indians and State Law 34, 52 (2007)
(Rosen). For example, New York passed laws forbidding
its citizens from suing to enforce contracts with Indians who
lived on Indian lands, and Virginia regulated the sale of land
held by Indians. See Laws of the Colonial and State Gov-
ernments, Relating to Indians and Indian Affairs, From 1633
to 1831, pp. 65–67, 158–159 (1832). Massachusetts author-
ized its Governor to appoint guardians to oversee Indians
and their property, while Ohio and Indiana forbade the sale
of liquor to Indians. Id., at 21–22, 232–234.
Page Proof Pending Publication
On the whole, States also generally applied both their civil
and criminal laws to Indians, with many extending their
criminal laws to all Indians anywhere in the State—includ-
ing, sometimes, on Indian reservations within the State.
See Rosen 53; see also, e. g., Goodell v. Jackson ex dem.
Smith, 20 Johns. 693 (N. Y. Ct. Corr. Errors 1823); State v.
Doxtater, 47 Wis. 278, 2 N. W. 439 (1879) (collecting cases).
To be sure, some of these laws may have conficted with valid
federal treaties or statutes on point, and courts at the time
often did not precisely demarcate the constitutional bound-
aries between state and federal authority. Rosen 55–56.4

4
The Constitution expressly denied certain powers to States, including
the power to “enter into any Treaty,” but it is silent on States' relationship
with Indians. See Art. I, § 10; see also Letter from T. Jefferson to H.
Knox (Aug. 10, 1791), in 22 Papers of Thomas Jefferson 27 (C. Cullen ed.
1986) (noting that States lack “a right to Treat with the Indians”). To be
sure, in 1832, this Court held that Georgia could not extend its laws over
the territory held by the Cherokee Nation. See Worcester v. Georgia, 6
Pet. 515. However, that opinion “yielded to closer analysis,” and Indian
348 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

But, when opponents of the Trade and Intercourse Acts'
criminal provisions complained that state laws would take
care of criminal offenses, the provisions' proponents did not
reply that state laws were disabled on this point—they in-
stead noted that citizens might go beyond the limits of States
and commit crimes. See 3 Annals of Cong. 751. And nota-
bly, Congress' early statutes did not purport to regulate In-
dians either on or off Indian lands—they instead regulated
and penalized only U. S. citizens who were trading with Indi-
ans or committing acts on Indian lands that threatened the
peace with the tribes.
Those statutory lines refected the early dynamic of
federal-Indian relations, with Indian affairs counting as both
a matter of quasi-foreign affairs and of state jurisdiction.
For example, the early Trade and Intercourse Acts only de-
manded satisfaction from Indian tribes if an Indian went onto
a State's land and committed a crime. E. g., 1 Stat. 472–473.
Under that regime, the Federal Government asserted no au-
Page Proof Pending Publication
thority over the acts of Indians who lived on tribal lands—
much less over Indians who lived off tribal lands and within
a State's sole jurisdiction.
That general jurisdictional line held until 1817, when Con-
gress frst enacted a statute to impose penalties on anyone
who committed a crime against a U. S. citizen while on In-
dian lands. See 3 Stat. 383. But Justice McLean, riding
circuit, held that statute unconstitutional in 1834—at least as
it applied to Indian lands located within the territorial limits
of a State. See United States v. Bailey, 24 F. Cas. 937 (No.
14,495) (CC Tenn.). As Justice McLean explained, “[t]hat
the federal government is one of limited powers, is a princi-
ple so obvious as not to admit of controversy.” Id., at 938.
Yet the Indian lands at issue were not located within a fed-
eral territory, and there had not been “any cession of juris-

reservations have since been treated as part of the State they are within.
Oklahoma v. Castro-Huerta, 597 U. S. 629, 636 (2022) (internal quotation
marks omitted).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 349

Thomas, J., dissenting

diction by the state of Tennessee.” Id., at 939.5 Nor was
the criminal statute in any way related to “commerce” with
the Indian tribes. Ibid. Indeed, Justice McLean asked, if
Congress could enact this statute, “why may not [C]ongress
legislate on crimes for the states generally?” Id., at 940.
He concluded that Congress “transcended their constitu-
tional powers” in asserting a general criminal jurisdiction
over tribal lands within the limits of a State. Ibid. And,
given the limited nature of the Federal Government's au-
thority, state laws thus played a signifcant role in regulating
Indians within the territorial limits of States. See id., at
939.
III
The Constitution's text and the foregoing history point to
a set of discrete, enumerated powers applicable to Indian
tribes—just as in any other context. Although our cases
have at times suggested a broader power with respect to
Page Proof Pending Publication
Indians, there is no evidence for such a free-foating author-
ity anywhere in the text or original understanding of the
Constitution. To the contrary, all of the Government's early
acts with respect to Indians are easily explicable under our
normal understanding of the Constitution's enumerated pow-
ers. For example, the Treaty Clause supported the Federal
Government's treaties with Indians, and the Property Clause
supported the gifts allocated to Indians. The powers to reg-
ulate territories and foreign affairs supported the regulation
of passports and penalties for criminal acts on Indian lands.
The various war-related powers supported military cam-
paigns against Indian tribes. And the Commerce Clause
supported the regulation of trade with Indian tribes.
5
This decision thus was consistent with one issued 12 years later by
this Court—which upheld the 1834 Trade and Intercourse Act's criminal
provisions against a citizen of the United States, deemed not to be an
Indian, who committed a crime on Indian lands within “a part of the terri-
tory of the United States, and not within the limits of any particular
State.” United States v. Rogers, 4 How. 567, 571–572 (1846).
350 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Moreover, the Founders deliberately chose to enumerate
one power specifc to Indian tribes: the power to regulate
“Commerce” with tribes. Because the Constitution contains
one Indian-specifc power, there is simply no reason to think
that there is some sort of free-foating, unlimited power over
all things related to Indians. That is common sense: ex-
pressio unius est exclusio alterius. And that is particularly
true here, because the Founders adopted the “Indian Com-
merce Clause” while rejecting an arguably broader authority
over “Indian affairs.” See Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at
662. Accordingly, here as elsewhere, the Federal Govern-
ment can exercise only its constitutionally enumerated pow-
ers. Because each of those powers contains its own inherent
limits, none of them can support an additional unbounded
power over all Indian-related matters. Indeed, the history
of the plenary power doctrine in Indian law shows that, from
its inception, it has been a power in search of a constitutional
Page Proof Pending Publication
basis—and the majority opinion shows that this is still the
case.
A
As the majority notes, some of the candidates that this
Court has suggested as the source of the “plenary power”
are the Treaty Clause, the Commerce Clause, and “principles
inherent in the Constitution's structure.” See ante, at 272–
275; Lara, 541 U. S., at 200. But each of those powers has
clear, inherent limits, and not one suggests any sort of unlim-
ited power over Indian affairs—much less a power to regu-
late U. S. citizens outside of Indian lands merely because
those individuals happen to be Indians. I will discuss each
in turn.
1
First, and most obviously, the Treaty Clause confers only
the power to “make Treaties”; the Supremacy Clause then
makes those treaties the supreme law of the land. Art. II,
§ 2, cl. 2; Art. VI. Even under our most expansive Treaty
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 351

Thomas, J., dissenting

Clause precedents, this power is still limited to actual treat-
ies. See Bond v. United States, 572 U. S. 844, 854–855
(2014); id., at 893–894 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment)
(the Treaty Power supports treaties only on matters of inter-
national intercourse); Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416,
433–435 (1920). It does not confer a free-foating power
over matters that might involve a party to a treaty.
2
Second, the Commerce Clause confers only the authority
“[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.” Art.
I, § 8, cl. 3 (emphasis added). “At the time the original Con-
stitution was ratifed, `commerce' consisted of selling, buying,
and bartering, as well as transporting for these purposes.”
United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549, 585 (1995) (Thomas, J.,
concurring); see also 1 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the Eng-
lish Language 361 (4th rev. ed. 1773) (reprint 1978) (defning
commerce as “Intercourse; exchange of one thing for an-
Page Proof Pending Publication
other; interchange of any thing; trade; traffck”). And even
under our most expansive Commerce Clause precedents, the
Clause permits Congress to regulate only “economic activ-
ity” like producing materials that will be sold or exchanged
as a matter of commerce. See Lopez, 514 U. S., at 560; Gon-
zales v. Raich, 545 U. S. 1, 22 (2005).6
The majority, however, suggests that the Commerce
Clause could have a broader application with respect to In-
dian tribes than for commerce between States or with for-
eign nations. See ante, at 273, 278. That makes little tex-
6
Though the Court has only passingly discussed the Commerce Clause's
application to commerce with foreign nations, see Baston v. United States,
580 U. S. 1182, 1184 (2017) (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certio-
rari), it has still described that application in terms of economic measures
like embargoes, see Atlantic Cleaners & Dyers, Inc. v. United States, 286
U. S. 427, 434 (1932); Buttfeld v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 493 (1904). See
also R. Barnett, The Original Meaning of the Commerce Clause, 68 U. Chi.
L. Rev. 101, 113–116, 128 (2001) (collecting Founding-era sources that
equate foreign commerce with trade).
352 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

tual sense. The Commerce Clause confers the power to
regulate a single object—“Commerce”—that is then cabined
by three prepositional phrases: “with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.”
Art. I, § 8, cl. 3. Accordingly, one would naturally read the
term “Commerce” as having the same meaning with respect
to each type of “Commerce” the Clause proceeds to identify.
See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 74 (1824). I would think
that is how we would read, for example, the President's “ap-
point[ment]” power with respect to “Ambassadors, . . .
Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Offcers of the
United States.” Art. II, § 2, cl. 2. There is no textual
reason why the Commerce Clause would be different. Nor
have the parties or the numerous amici presented any evi-
dence that the Founders thought that the term “Commerce”
in the Commerce Clause meant different things for Indian
tribes than it did for commerce between States. See S. Pra-
Page Proof Pending Publication
kash, Our Three Commerce Clauses and the Presumption of
Intrasentence Uniformity, 55 Ark. L. Rev. 1149, 1161–1162
(2003).
Rather, the evidence points in the opposite direction. See
Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 659–660 (Thomas, J., concur-
ring). When discussing “commerce” with Indian tribes, the
Founders plainly meant buying and selling goods and trans-
portation for that purpose. For example, President Wash-
ington once informed Congress of the need for “new channels
for the commerce of the Creeks,” because “their trade is lia-
ble to be interrupted” by conficts with England. Statement
to the Senate (Aug. 4, 1790), reprinted in 4 American State
Papers 80. Henry Knox similarly referred to the “profts of
this commerce” with the Creeks in the context of a “trading
house which has the monopoly of the trade of the Creeks.”
Report (July 6, 1789), reprinted in id., at 15. And President
Jefferson likewise discussed the “commerce [that] shall be
carried on liberally” at “trading houses” with Indians.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 353

Thomas, J., dissenting

Statement to Congress (Jan. 18, 1803), reprinted in id., at
684.7 All of this makes sense, given that the Founders both
wanted to facilitate trade with Indians and rejected a facially
broader “Indian affairs” power in favor of a narrower power
over “Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.”
As noted above, that omission was not accidental; the Arti-
cles of Confederation had contained that “Indian affairs” lan-
guage, and that language was twice proposed (and rejected)
at the Constitutional Convention. See Adoptive Couple,

7
See also Statement of T. Jefferson to Congress (Jan. 18, 1803), re-
printed in 4 American State Papers 684–685 (Offcers may “have confer-
ences with the natives, on the subject of commercial intercourse; get ad-
mission among them for our traders, as others are admitted; [and] agree
on convenient deposites, for an interchange of articles . . . ”); Statement of
T. Jefferson to Congress (Jan. 28, 1802), reprinted in id., at 653 (“I lay
before you the accounts of our Indian trading houses . . . explaining the
effects and the situation of that commerce . . . ”); Statement of S. Sibley

Page Proof Pending Publication
et al. to Congress (Dec. 27, 1811), reprinted in id., at 780–782 (in the
Northwest Territory, formerly “[t]here was trade and commercial inter-
course; no agriculture,” but “[a]t present, the little commerce which re-
mains is suffciently safe. It is agricultural protection which is wanted”);
Letter from J. Mason to W. Eustis (Jan. 16, 1812), reprinted in id., at
782–784 (“[P]eltries (deer skins) are in most part received from the In-
dians . . . . The market is on the continent of Europe. Since the obstruc-
tions to our commerce in that quarter, peltries have not only experienced
a depression in price . . . ”); Protest by J. Hendricks, J. Jackson, & J. Simms
(June 28, 1796), reprinted in id., at 613–614 (“No citizen is to be permitted
to sell, or furnish by gift, spirituous liquors to the Indians, or to have
any commercial traffc with them”); see also Natelson 214–215. Even one
Founder who appears to have used the term more loosely (in the context
of an opinion on the constitutionality of a national bank) focused only on
trade and immigration restrictions. Letter from E. Randolph to G. Wash-
ington (Feb. 12, 1791), in 7 Papers of George Washington: Presidential
Series 330, 334–335 (D. Twohig ed. 1998) (“The heads of [the commerce]
power with respect to the Indian Tribes are 1. to prohibit the Indians from
coming into, or trading within, the United States. 2. to admit them with
or without restrictions. 3. to prohibit citizens of the United States from
trading with them; or 4. to permit with or without restrictions”).
354 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

570 U. S., at 662.8 Then, as today, “affairs” was a broader
term than “commerce,” with “affairs” more generally refer-
ring to things to be done.9 Thus, whatever the precise con-

8
To be sure, as respondents point out, the Constitution removed two
limits on the Indian-affairs power found in the Articles of Confederation:
that the Indians not be “members of any of the States,” and that no State's
“legislative right . . . within its own limits be . . . infringed.” See Brief
for Federal Parties 12–13. But removing those two limits in the Indian
context cannot simultaneously expand the very meaning of “commerce,”
particularly because the Commerce Clause operates on two objects beyond
Indian tribes. The Constitution's changes in this regard are thus best
understood as narrowing the subject matter of Congress' power while
omitting external constraints on that power.
9
Compare F. Allen, A Complete English Dictionary (1765) (Allen)
(“something done,” or “the concerns and transactions of a nation”); 1 S.
Johnson, Dictionary of the English Language (6th ed. 1785) (Johnson); N.
Bailey, A Universal Etymological English Dictionary (26th ed. 1789) (Bai-
ley), with Allen (“the exchange of commodities, or the buying and selling
[of] merchandize both at home and abroad; intercourse of any kind”); John-
Page Proof Pending Publication
son (similar); Bailey (similar).
Indeed, when the Founders referred to Indian “affairs,” they were often
referring to diplomatic relations—going far afeld of their references to
Indian “commerce.” E. g., G. Washington to Congress (Mar. 26, 1792), in
4 American State Papers 225 (referring to “the present crisis of affairs”
with Indians and “managing the affairs of the Indian tribes” in a general
sense, including inviting the Five Nations to the seat of the Federal Gov-
ernment and giving presents to the tribes); Report from H. Knox (Nov. 7,
1792), in id., at 225 (referring to “the subject of Indian Affairs” in the
context of measures “to procure a peace with the Indians” and troops);
Natelson 217–218 (detailing preconstitutional references to the Depart-
ment of Indian Affairs). As noted above, Congress tasked the War De-
partment with duties “relative to Indian affairs.” § 1, 1 Stat. 50. And a
Committee of the Continental Congress once remarked that “the principal
objects” of that Congress' power of “managing affairs with” Indians had
encompassed “making war and peace, purchasing certain tracts of their
land, fxing the boundaries between them and our people, and preventing
the latter [from] settling on lands left in possession of the former.” 33
Journals of the Continental Congress 458 (1936 ed.). Of course, it may be
that the Constitution's other enumerated powers authorized many of those
“objects.” But, whatever the precise bounds of an “Indian affairs” power,
it was decidedly broader than a power over Indian “commerce.”
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 355

Thomas, J., dissenting

tours of a freestanding “Indian Affairs” Clause might have
been, the Founders' specifc rejection of such a power shows
that there is no basis to stretch the Commerce Clause beyond
its normal limits.10
3
Third, the “structural principles” that the majority points
to are only the foreign-affairs powers that the Constitution
provides more generally. See Lara, 541 U. S., at 201 (citing
Curtiss-Wright, 299 U. S., at 315–322). As detailed above,
the Constitution plainly confers foreign-affairs powers on the
Federal Government to regulate passports, offenses against
the laws of nations, and citizens' acts abroad that threaten
the Nation's peace. S. Prakash & M. Ramsey, The Execu-
tive Power Over Foreign Affairs, 111 Yale L. J. 231, 298–332
(2001). Those powers were brought to bear on Indian
tribes, with whom the Federal Government maintained a
government-to-government relationship. See, e. g., Cohen
Page Proof Pending Publication
§ 1.03[1], at 25–26; 1 Stat. 470 (passports on Indian lands);

10
The historical record thus provides scant support for the view, advo-
cated by some scholars, that the term “commerce” meant (in the context
of Indians) all interactions with Indians. E. g., G. Ablavsky, Beyond the
Indian Commerce Clause, 124 Yale L. J. 1012, 1028–1032 (2015) (Ablavsky).
The main evidence for that view appears to be (1) a few, fairly isolated
references to “commerce” outside the context of trade, usually in the con-
text of sexual encounters, (2) the fact that one defnition of “commerce”
was “intercourse” at the Founding, and (3) the fact that trade with Indians,
at the Founding, had political signifcance. Ibid. But, as noted above,
the Founders repeatedly used the term “commerce” when discussing trade
with Indians. And just because that trade had political signifcance surely
does not mean that all things of political signifcance were “commerce.”
Nor is the defnition of “commerce” as “intercourse” instructive, because
dictionaries from the era also defned “intercourse” as “commerce.” E. g.,
Johnson; Allen. Even some of these same scholars concede that the
Founders overwhelmingly discussed “trade” with Indians—far more than
either “intercourse” or “commerce” with them. See Ablavsky 1028, n. 81.
And, again, when the Founders did discuss “commerce” specifcally, they
did so almost entirely in the context of trade. See supra, at 352–353, and
n. 7.
356 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

id., at 137 (crimes on Indian lands); id., at 383 (enlisting with
foreign states).
But that authority is a foreign, not domestic, affairs power.
It comprehends external relations, like matters of war,
peace, and diplomacy—not internal affairs like adoption pro-
ceedings. The Court made that point explicit in Curtiss-
Wright: The “power over external affairs [is] in origin and
essential character different from that over internal affairs.”
299 U. S., at 319; see also Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v.
Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, 635, n. 2 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring
in judgment and opinion of Court) (recognizing this distinc-
tion). For external affairs, the Constitution grants the Fed-
eral Government a wider authority; but for internal affairs,
the Constitution provides fewer, more discrete powers.
See, e. g., Curtiss-Wright, 299 U. S., at 315, 319; Zivotofsky,
576 U. S., at 34–35 (opinion of Thomas, J.).
Again, all those limits dovetail with the historical practices
of the Founding era. As discussed above, the Founding-era
Page Proof Pending Publication
Government undertook a wide array of measures with re-
spect to Indian tribes. But, apart from measures dealing
with commerce, most (if not all) of the Federal Government's
actions toward Indians either treated them as sovereign
entities or regulated citizens on Indian lands who might
threaten to breach treaties with Indians or otherwise disrupt
the peace.11 For example, early treaties that dealt with

11
The closest possible exception from this era was a provision in the
Trade and Intercourse Act of 1822 (later enacted in the Act of 1834), which
provided that, “in all trials about the right of property, in which Indians
shall be party on one side and white persons on the other, the burden of
proof shall rest upon the white person, in every case in which the Indian
shall make out a presumption of title in himself from the fact of previous
possession and ownership.” § 4, 3 Stat. 683; § 22, 4 Stat. 733. But even
that statute appears to be merely part of the general “design” of the Acts:
to “protect the rights of Indians to their properties” “[b]ecause of recur-
ring trespass upon and illegal occupancy of Indian territory” by frontier
settlers. See Wilson v. Omaha Tribe, 442 U. S. 653, 664 (1979). Viewed
as such, this unremarkable provision only furthered the foreign-affairs and
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 357

Thomas, J., dissenting

questions of peace and war plainly involved some sort of
sovereign-to-sovereign relationship. See, e. g., Treaty with
the Cherokees (1791), 7 Stat. 39. And the early Trade and
Intercourse Acts regulated only the criminal conduct of U. S.
citizens on Indian lands.
This congruence—between the government's actions and
the Constitution's enumerated powers—likely refects the
fact that those powers, collectively, responded to the most
pressing concerns of the day: that Congress could not enforce
its treaties with Indians, police the frontier, or regulate un-
scrupulous traders—all of which caused violence and raised
the specter of war with Indian tribes. As noted, when Con-
gress tried to expand its domain in 1817 to regulate the crim-
inal acts of Indians, one Justice of this Court found it to be
a palpable violation of Congress' limited powers. See Bai-
ley, 24 F. Cas., at 938–940. And, all the while, States contin-
ued to regulate matters relating to Indians within their
territorial limits. The normal federalist dynamic thus
Page Proof Pending Publication
extended to the domain of Indian affairs: The Federal Gov-
ernment was supreme with respect to its enumerated pow-
ers, but States retained all residual police powers within
their territorial borders. See id., at 938–939; McCulloch, 4
Wheat., at 405. And the Federal Government's enumerated
powers were not unlimited, but confned to their plain mean-
ing and limits.
B
So where did the idea of a “plenary power” over Indian
affairs come from? As it turns out, little more than ipse
dixit. The story begins with loose dicta from Cherokee Na-
tion v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1 (1831). In that case, the Cherokee
Nation petitioned this Court for an injunction to prevent
Georgia from enforcing state laws in Cherokee territory and

commerce powers of the Federal Government by preventing non-Indians
from stealing Indian lands, circumventing Congress' trade-licensing
scheme, and disrupting the peace with Indian tribes.
358 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

from seizing Cherokee lands. Id., at 11. The Tribe as-
serted that Article III both allowed the suit and gave this
Court original jurisdiction because the suit was one by a
“foreign Stat[e]” against the State of Georgia. § 2, cls. 1–2.
Writing for the Court, Chief Justice Marshall admitted that
the Tribe's argument was “imposing”: The Tribe was “a
state, as a distinct political society,” but it was “not a state
of the union.” 5 Pet., at 16. Nonetheless, the Court re-
fused to hear the case. As Marshall reasoned, Indian tribes
were not “foreign state[s] in the sense of the constitution,”
as shown in part by the Commerce Clause's delineation of
States, foreign nations, and Indian tribes.12 Ibid. Rather,
Marshall reasoned that the Indian tribes occupied a unique
status, which he characterized as that of “domestic depend-
ent nations” whose “relation to the United States resembles
that of a ward to his guardian.” Id., at 17.
Other than this opinion, I have been unable to locate any
evidence that the Founders thought of the Federal Govern-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ment as having a generalized guardianship-type relationship
with the Indian tribes—much less one conferring any con-
gressional power over Indian affairs. To the contrary, such
a status seems diffcult to square with the relationship be-
tween the Federal Government and tribes, which at times
involved warfare, not trust. See, e. g., Fletcher & Singel
904–907; F. Hutchins, Tribes and the American Constitution
104 (2000). And, if such a general relationship existed,
there would seem to be little need for the Federal Govern-
ment to have ratifed specifc treaties with tribes calling for
federal protection. E. g., Treaty with the Kaskaskia (1803),
7 Stat. 78; Treaty with the Creeks (1790), id., at 35. At bot-

12
In dissent, Justice Thompson reasoned that the reference to “Indian
tribes” was meant only to ensure that the Federal Government could regu-
late commerce with tribes, which were often subunits of Indian nations.
Accordingly, he concluded that Indian nations were “ `foreign states' ”
under Article III. Cherokee Nation, 5 Pet., at 64.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 359

Thomas, J., dissenting

tom, Cherokee Nation's loose dicta cannot support a broader
power over Indian affairs.
Nevertheless, Cherokee Nation's suggestion was picked up
decades later in United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375
(1886)—the frst case to actually apply a broader, unenumer-
ated power over Indian affairs. In Kagama, the Court con-
sidered the Major Crimes Act of 1885, which, similar to the
1817 Act held unconstitutional by Justice McLean while ri-
ding circuit, regulated crimes on Indian lands committed by
Indians; the Major Crimes Act differed from the 1817 Act
only in that it extended to crimes committed against other
Indians. See § 9, 23 Stat. 385. Similarly to Justice
McLean's Bailey opinion, the Court frst rejected the idea
that the Commerce Clause could support the Act—reasoning
that “it would be a very strained construction of th[e] clause,
that a system of criminal laws for Indians . . . was authorized
by the grant of power to regulate commerce with the Indian
Page Proof Pending Publication
tribes.” Kagama, 118 U. S., at 378–379.
But the Court determined that the Major Crimes Act was
constitutional nevertheless. As the Court frst noted, the
Act was “confned to the acts of an Indian of some tribe,
of a criminal character, committed within the limits of the
reservation.” Id., at 383. The Court then cited several
cases arising from congressional regulations of Indian lands
located within federal territories, noting that Congress had
previously punished offenses committed on such lands. See
id., at 380 (citing United States v. Rogers, 4 How. 567, 572
(1846); Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 44 (1885); American
Ins. Co. v. 356 Bales of Cotton, 1 Pet. 511, 542 (1828)). Next,
the Court reasoned that the Act “does not interfere with the
process of the State courts within the reservation, nor with
the operation of State laws upon white people found there.”
118 U. S., at 383. Instead, the Act's “effect[s are] confned
to the acts of an Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character,
committed within the limits of the reservation.” Ibid.
360 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

That sort of language seems to view Indian lands as akin
to quasi-federal lands or perhaps “external” to the Nation's
normal affairs. But nothing the Court cited actually sup-
ported such a view. For example, the fact that the Federal
Government could regulate Indians on federal territories
does not justify such regulations for Indians within a State's
limits. Nor does the fact that tribes were “external” at the
Founding mean that they remained “external” in 1886.13
Nor does the fact that Congress could regulate citizens who
went onto Indian lands, see Rogers, 4 How., at 572, mean that
Congress automatically has the power to regulate Indians on
those lands.
But the Court then subtly shifted its approach. Drawing
on Cherokee Nation, the Court next asserted that “Indian
tribes are the wards of the nation.” Kagama, 118 U. S., at
383 (emphasis in original). Because of “their very weakness
and helplessness,” it reasoned, “so largely due to the course
of dealing of the Federal Government with them and the
Page Proof Pending Publication
treaties in which it has been promised, there arises the duty
of protection, and with it the power.” Id., at 384. This
power “over th[e] remnants” of the Indian tribes, the Court
stated, “must exist in [the federal] government, because it
never has existed anywhere else,” “because it has never been
denied, and because it alone can enforce its laws on all the
tribes.” Id., at 384–385.
These pronouncements, however, were pure ipse dixit.
The Court pointed to nothing in the text of the Constitution
or its original understanding to support them. Nor did the
Court give any other real support for those conclusions; in-
stead, it cited three cases, all of which held only that States
were restricted in certain ways from governing Indians on
Indian lands. Id., at 384 (citing Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet.
13
As discussed more below, Congress declared in 1871 that “hereafter
no Indian nation or tribe within the territory of the United States shall
be acknowledged or recognized as an independent nation, tribe, or power
with whom the United States may contract by treaty.” 16 Stat. 566.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 361

Thomas, J., dissenting

515 (1832); Fellows v. Blacksmith, 19 How. 366 (1857) (only
the Federal Government, not private parties, can enforce re-
moval treaties); The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737 (1867)
(States cannot tax Indian lands)). It does not follow from
those cases that the Federal Government has any additional
authority with regard to Indians—much less a sweeping, un-
bounded authority over all matters relating to Indians. Cf.
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 547 (suggesting that tribes had long
been left to regulate their internal affairs). At each step,
Kagama thus lacked any constitutional basis.
Nonetheless, in the years after Kagama, this Court
started referring to a “plenary power” or “plenary author-
ity” that Congress possessed over Indian tribes, as well as a
trust relationship with the Indians. See, e. g., Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 478 (1899); Lone Wolf v.
Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553, 565 (1903); Winton v. Amos, 255
U. S. 373, 391 (1921). And, in the decades since, this Court
Page Proof Pending Publication
has increasingly gestured to such a plenary power, usually
in the context of regulating a tribal government or tribal
lands, while conspicuously failing to ground the power in any
constitutional text and cautioning that the power is not abso-
lute. See, e. g., ante, at 275 (noting this problem); United
States v. Alcea Band of Tillamooks, 329 U. S. 40, 54 (1946)
(opinion of Vinson, C. J.); Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez,
436 U. S. 49, 56–57 (1978).
The majority's opinion today continues in that vein—only
confrming its lack of any constitutional basis. Like so many
cases before it, the majority's opinion lurches from one con-
stitutional hook to another, not quite hanging the idea of a
plenary power on any of them, while insisting that the ple-
nary power is not absolute. See ante, at 272–276. While I
empathize with the majority regarding the confusion that
Kagama and its progeny have engendered, I cannot refex-
ively reaffrm a power that remains in search of a constitu-
tional basis. And, while the majority points to a few actual
constitutional provisions, like the Commerce and Treaty
362 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Clauses, those provisions cannot bear the weight that our
cases have placed upon them.
At bottom, Kagama simply departed from the text and
original meaning of the Constitution, which confers only the
enumerated powers discussed above. Those powers are not
boundless and did not operate differently with respect to In-
dian tribes at the Founding; instead, they conferred all the
authority that the new Federal Government needed at the
time to deal with Indian tribes. When dealing with Indian
affairs, as with any other affairs, we should always evaluate
whether a law can be justifed by the Constitution's enumer-
ated powers, rather than pointing to amorphous powers with
no textual or historical basis.

IV
Properly understood, the Constitution's enumerated pow-
ers cannot support ICWA. Not one of those powers, as orig-
Page Proof Pending Publication
inally understood, comes anywhere close to including the
child custody proceedings of U. S. citizens living within the
sole jurisdiction of States. Moreover, ICWA has no consti-
tutional basis even under Kagama and later precedents.
While those cases have extended the Federal Government's
Indian-related powers beyond the original understanding of
the Constitution, this Court has never extended them far
enough to support ICWA. Rather, virtually all of this
Court's modern Indian-law precedents—upholding laws that
regulate tribal lands, tribal governments, and commerce
with tribes—can be understood through a core conceptual
framework that at least arguably corresponds to Founding-
era practices. To extend those cases to uphold ICWA thus
would require ignoring the context of those precedents,
treating their loose “plenary power” language as talismanic,
and transforming that power into the truly unbounded, abso-
lute power that they disclaim. The basic premise that the
powers of the Federal Government are limited and defned
should counsel against taking that step.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 363

Thomas, J., dissenting

A
ICWA lacks any foothold in the Constitution's original
meaning. Most obviously, ICWA has no parallel from the
Founding era; it regulates the child custody proceedings of
U. S. citizens in state courts—not on Indian lands—merely
because the children involved happen to be Indians. No law
from that time even came close to asserting a general police
power over citizens who happened to be Indians—by, for ex-
ample, regulating the acts of Indians who were also citizens
and who lived within the sole jurisdiction of States (and not
on Indian lands). If nothing else, the dearth of Founding-
era laws even remotely similar to ICWA should give us
pause.
Nor can ICWA fnd any support in the Constitution's enu-
merated powers as originally understood. I take those pow-
ers in turn: First, the Property Clause cannot support ICWA
because ICWA is not based on the disposition of federal
Page Proof Pending Publication
property and is not limited to federal lands; in fact, the Fed-
eral Government owns very little Indian land. See Statisti-
cal Record of Native North Americans 1054 (M. Reddy ed.
1993); S. Prakash, Against Tribal Fungibility, 89 Cornell
L. Rev. 1069, 1092–1093 (2004).
Second, the Treaty Clause cannot support ICWA because
no one has identifed a treaty that governs child custody
proceedings—much less a treaty with each of the 574 feder-
ally recognized tribes to which ICWA applies. 25 U. S. C.
§§ 1903(3), (8); 86 Fed. Reg. 7554 (2021). Nor could they;
Congress declared an end to treaty-making with Indian
tribes in 1871, and it appears that well over half of the tribes
lack any treaty with the Federal Government. See 16 Stat.
566; Brief for Tribal Defendants 37–38; see also generally
Vols. 1–2 C. Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties (2d
ed. 1902, 1904). And, in part because one Congress can
never bind a later Congress, the Federal Government retains
the power to abrogate treaties and has done so for at least
some Indian treaties. E. g., Lone Wolf, 187 U. S., at 566; ac-
364 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

cord, La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.
423, 460 (1899); 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws
of England 90 (1765) (Blackstone). Whatever number of
treaties remain in force, they cannot justify ICWA.
Third, the Commerce Clause cannot support ICWA. As
originally understood, the Clause confers a power only over
buying and selling, not family law and child custody disputes.
Even under our more modern, expansive precedents, the
Clause is still limited to only “economic activity” and cannot
support the regulation of core domestic matters like family
or criminal laws. See Lopez, 514 U. S., at 560; United States
v. Morrison, 529 U. S. 598, 610–611 (2000); National Federa-
tion of Independent Business v. Sebelius, 567 U. S. 519, 552
(2012) (opinion of Roberts, C. J.); id., at 657 (Scalia, J., dis-
senting).14 And even Kagama itself rejected the Commerce
Clause as a basis for any sort of expansive power over Indian
affairs. 118 U. S., at 378–379. Therefore, nothing about
that Clause supports a law, like ICWA, governing child cus-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tody disputes in state courts.
Fourth, the Federal Government's foreign-affairs powers
cannot support ICWA. For today's purposes, I will assume
that some tribes still enjoy the same sort of pre-existing sov-
ereignty and autonomy as tribes at the Founding, thereby
establishing the sort of quasi-foreign, government-to-
government relationship that appears to have defned those
powers at the Founding. Even so, the foreign-affairs pow-
ers can operate only externally, in the context of lands under
the purview of another sovereign (like Indian tribal lands)
14
Respondents insist that Lopez and Morrison did not hold that family
law is insulated from federal law. But that misses the point. Lopez and
Morrison held that the Commerce Clause cannot regulate a matter like
family law, and they did not consider whether some other constitutional
power might do so. Cf. Hillman v. Maretta, 569 U. S. 483, 490–491, 497
(2013) (fnding pre-emption of a state statute regarding benefciaries and
a change in marital status under a federal statute regulating the life insur-
ance of federal employees). Here, no such independent power is to be
found.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 365

Thomas, J., dissenting

or in the context of a government-to-government relation-
ship (such as matters of diplomacy or peace). See Curtiss-
Wright, 299 U. S., at 315, 319. But regulating child custody
proceedings of citizens within a State is the paradigmatic
domestic situation; the Federal Government surely could not
apply its foreign-affairs powers to the domestic family-law
or criminal matters of any other citizens merely because they
happened to have citizenship or ancestral connections with
another nation.15 Apart from the single provision that
allows tribal governments jurisdiction over proceedings for
Indians on tribal lands, see § 1911(a), ICWA is completely
untethered from any external aspect of our Nation that could
somehow implicate these powers.
That should be the end of the analysis. Again, as the ma-
jority notes, our Federal Government has only the powers
that the Constitution enumerates. See ante, at 272–273;
McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at 405. Not one of those enumerated
powers justifes ICWA. Therefore, it has no basis whatso-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ever in our constitutional system.

B
Even taking our “plenary power” precedents as given (as
the majority seems to do for purposes of these cases), noth-
ing in those precedents supports ICWA. To be sure, this
15
Indeed, ICWA stands in sharp contrast to statutes regarding interna-
tional adoptions, in accordance with the Hague Convention. Those stat-
utes generally regulate only adoptions by a foreign parent of a child resid-
ing in the United States, or vice versa. E. g., 114 Stat. 825; 42 U. S. C.
§§ 14931, 14932. In other words, there is a cross-border component; the
statutes do not regulate adoption proceedings merely because the child's
parents are, for example, dual Mexican-American citizens or dual Irish-
American citizens. For ICWA to be comparable to those statutes, it could
regulate only the adoption of children who reside on an Indian reservation
by parents who live within the sole jurisdiction of a State, or vice versa.
While I take no position on whether such a more limited law would be
constitutional, that stark difference only underscores ICWA's lack of any
external focus.
366 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Court has repeatedly used loose language concerning a “ple-
nary power” and “trust relationship” with Indians, and that
language has been taken by some to displace the normal con-
stitutional rules. See ante, at 272–277. But, even taken to
their new limits, the Court's precedents have upheld only a
variety of laws that either regulate commerce with Indians
or deal with Indian tribes and their lands. Despite citing a
veritable avalanche of precedents, respondents have failed to
identify a single case where this Court upheld a federal stat-
ute comparable to ICWA.
As noted above, Kagama was careful to note that the
Major Crimes Act at issue was “confned to the acts of an
Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character, committed
within the limits of the reservation.” 118 U. S., at 383. In
that vein, the opinion cited cases arising from congressional
regulations of Indian lands located within Federal Territo-
ries. See id., at 380 (citing Rogers, 4 How., at 572; citing
Page Proof Pending Publication
Murphy, 114 U. S., at 44, and 356 Bales of Cotton, 1 Pet.,
at 542). In other words, it is possible that Kagama viewed
Congress as having the power to regulate crimes by Indians
on Indian lands because those lands remained in a sense
“external” to the Nation's normal affairs and akin to quasi-
federal lands.
Again, that would be a non sequitur. Nevertheless, at a
high level, it is possible to see how Kagama was rooted in
the same foreign-affairs and territorial powers that author-
ized much of the early Trade and Intercourse Acts (and
which Congress may have relied upon when passing the 1817
Act). See Cohen § 5.01[4], at 390, and nn. 47, 48 (linking
Kagama with Curtiss-Wright, 299 U. S., at 318); United
States v. Wheeler, 435 U. S. 313, 323 (1978) (describing Indian
tribes as possessing a pre-existing sovereignty, apart from
the United States). And, viewed in that light, it would
make sense to limit Kagama to that conceptual root, treating
regulations of tribal lands and tribal governments as “exter-
nal” to the normal affairs of the Nation.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 367

Thomas, J., dissenting

Indeed, such a line explains almost all of the myriad cases
that respondents have cataloged as showing an unqualifed
power over Indian affairs. See, e. g., Michigan v. Bay Mills
Indian Community, 572 U. S. 782, 789 (2014) (tribal govern-
ment's sovereign immunity); Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S. 294, 299, 308 (1902) (federal approval of mining
leases on tribal lands); Stephens, 174 U. S., at 476–477 (fed-
eral court in Indian territory). Many, for example, dealt
with federal laws that purported to diminish a tribe's terri-
tory or jurisdiction. South Dakota v. Yankton Sioux Tribe,
522 U. S. 329 (1998); Negonsott v. Samuels, 507 U. S. 99
(1993); Washington v. Confederated Bands and Tribes of
Yakima Nation, 439 U. S. 463 (1979); United States v. Hel-
lard, 322 U. S. 363 (1944). Others dealt with state taxes on
Indian lands. See, e. g., Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New
Mexico, 490 U. S. 163 (1989); Bryan v. Itasca County, 426
U. S. 373 (1976); Board of County Comm'rs v. Seber, 318 U. S.
Page Proof Pending Publication
705 (1943); Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665 (1912). Others
still have permitted the Federal Government to diminish a
tribe's self-government. See Santa Clara Pueblo, 436 U. S.,
at 56–57. And yet others, in Kagama's direct lineage, dealt
with crimes on Indian lands. See, e. g., Lara, 541 U. S., at
200; see also, e. g., United States v. Cooley, 593 U. S. 345, 347–
348 (2021); Wheeler, 435 U. S., at 323–324.
In doing so, some of those criminal law cases reasoned that
the Double Jeopardy Clause permits separate punishments
by tribal governments and the Federal Government because
of the tribe's separate sovereignty, underscoring Kagama's
conceptual root. See, e. g., Cooley, 593 U. S., at 347–348;
Lara, 541 U. S., at 200. And, along the way, at least some
of these cases clarifed, like Kagama, that they dealt not with
“Indians who have left or never inhabited reservations set
aside for their exclusive use or who do not possess the usual
accoutrements of tribal self-government,” but only with Indi-
ans residing on Indian lands. McClanahan v. Arizona Tax
Comm'n, 411 U. S. 164, 167–168 (1973); accord, Fisher v. Dis-
368 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

trict Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., 424 U. S.
382, 383 (1976) (per curiam) (dealing with “an adoption pro-
ceeding in which all parties are members of the Tribe and
residents of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation”);
United States v. Algoma Lumber Co., 305 U. S. 415, 417
(1939) (regulations of “contracts for the sale of timber on
land of the Klamath Indian Reservation”). In case after
case, the law at issue purported to reach only tribal govern-
ments or tribal lands, no more.
To be sure, applying Kagama's conceptual framework ulti-
mately reveals a catch-22 of sorts: If Congress regulates
tribal governments as a matter of external affairs, then such
regulation seems to undercut the very tribal sovereignty
that serves as the basis for that congressional power. See
Lara, 541 U. S., at 214–215 (Thomas, J., concurring in judg-
ment). But that appears to be a hallmark of Kagama and its
progeny, not a peculiarity. As Chief Justice Marshall once
Page Proof Pending Publication
stated, Indians are neither wholly foreign nor wholly domes-
tic, but are instead “domestic dependent nations,” akin to
“ `[t]ributary' ” states. Worcester, 6 Pet., at 561; Cherokee
Nation, 5 Pet., at 16–17. It may be that this contradiction
is simply baked into our Indian jurisprudence. And, in any
event, recognizing the proper conceptual root for these prec-
edents makes the most sense of them as a textual and origi-
nal matter—and it is surely preferable to continuing along
this meandering and ill-defned path.
Yet, even confning Kagama's conceptual error to its roots,
the majority seems concerned that other precedents suggest
that the Commerce Clause has broader application with re-
spect to Indian affairs. But many of this Court's prece-
dents, even when referring to some broader power, dealt
with laws that governed trade with Indians, no more. See,
e. g., United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407 (1866) (selling
liquor to Indians); Perrin v. United States, 232 U. S. 478
(1914) (same); United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28 (1913)
(same); Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 340 (1908) (selling
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 369

Thomas, J., dissenting

liquor on Indian lands). Thus, even if those cases suggest a
broader power, they must be taken in context. And the
cases that the majority cites for its proposition turn out to
be the ones that do so in the most obvious dicta. For exam-
ple, Cotton Petroleum considered state taxes on Indian
lands; it had no need to opine on the Commerce Clause be-
yond explaining that Indian tribes are not States. See 490
U. S., at 192. In a similar vein, Seminole Tribe of Fla. v.
Florida, 517 U. S. 44 (1996), held only that the Commerce
Clause does not confer any authority to abrogate state sover-
eign immunity; any language about the breadth of the “In-
dian Commerce Clause” was wholly unnecessary to that re-
sult. Id., at 62. Shorn of their dicta, all of these precedents
refect only the longstanding—and enumerated—authority to
regulate commerce with Indian tribes.
Other precedents cited by the majority that do not ft into
Kagama's conceptual framework are easily explicable as sup-
ported by other, specifc powers of Congress. For example,
Page Proof Pending Publication
Lone Wolf held that Congress can enact laws that violate
treaties with Indians; that holding was justifed by Congress'
general power to abrogate an existing law or treaty. 187
U. S., at 565–566; accord, La Abra Silver Mining Co., 175
U. S., at 460; Blackstone 90. Another treaty-based case,
Delaware Tribal Business Comm. v. Weeks, 430 U. S. 73
(1977), involved the disposition of funds paid pursuant to a
treaty. It therefore makes sense as a matter of both the
Property and Treaty Clauses. And yet another treaty-
based case involved a promise by the United States to estab-
lish a discrete trust fund with $500,000 for a Tribe, with an-
nual interest to be paid to the Tribe. See Seminole Nation
v. United States, 316 U. S. 286, 293–294 (1942). Though that
case spoke of historic trust obligations, it arose from an ex-
plicit promise to create a trust with $500,000.16 There is
16
Still other cases fall somewhere in the middle of these powers, but
they are still easily explicable by normal constitutional rules. For exam-
ple, United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 103 (1935), held that the
370 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Thomas, J., dissenting

little reason to view such cases as expanding Congress'
powers.
Accordingly, the context of all these cases points to lines
that are at least plausibly rooted in Founding-era practices
and the text of the Constitution. See Brown v. Davenport,
596 U. S. 118, 141 (2022) ( judicial opinions must be taken in
context, not read like statutes). Congress can regulate com-
merce with Indian tribes; it may be able to regulate tribal
governments and lands in Kagama's vein; and it can make
treaties, dispose of federal funds, and establish discrete
trusts.17
ICWA does not remotely resemble those practices. It
does not regulate commerce, tribal governments, or tribal
lands. Nor is it based on treaties, federal funds, or any dis-
crete trust. By regulating family-law matters of citizens
living within the sole jurisdiction of States merely because
they happen to be Indians, ICWA stands clearly outside the
framework of our Indian-law precedents. To uphold ICWA
Page Proof Pending Publication
therefore would drastically expand the context in which we

United States had to provide “just compensation” for the taking of Indian
lands—which seems equally a measure of tribal lands as it does standard
Takings Clause jurisprudence. Id., at 110. And Sunderland v. United
States, 266 U. S. 226 (1924), involved conditions imposed on the purchase
of land by an Indian with funds held in trust by the Federal Government;
the funds had been acquired from the previous sale of Indian lands that
were themselves likely held in trust. Id., at 231–232; see Cohen § 16.04[3],
at 1090–1091. Sunderland thus seems equally a measure of Indian lands
and conditions on spending.
17
Nor should we be unduly tripped up by broad language like “plenary”
powers. Prior to our 1995 decision in United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S.
549, the Court for decades had stated that “the Commerce Clause is a
grant of plenary authority” in the realm of interstate commerce. See
Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Assn., Inc., 452 U. S.
264, 276 (1981); Maryland v. Wirtz, 392 U. S. 183, 198 (1968); United States
v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 115 (1941). Yet we then clarifed that the Com-
merce Clause's application to interstate commerce, rather than being un-
bounded, was limited only to economic activities. See Lopez, 514 U. S., at
560. Again, it is critical to read the Court's precedents in their context.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 371

Thomas, J., dissenting

have previously upheld Indian-related laws in Kagama's
framework.
But, even if that is so, the majority appears to ask “why
Congress's power is limited to these categories.” Ante, at
280, n. 4. The majority nearly answers itself: because our
Constitution is one of enumerated powers, and limiting Con-
gress' authority to those “buckets” would bring our jurispru-
dence closer to the powers enumerated by the text and origi-
nal meaning of the Constitution. See ante, at 273, 276–277,
280, n. 4. While I share the majority's frustration with peti-
tioners' limited engagement with the Court's precedents, I
would recognize the contexts of those cases and limit the so-
called plenary power to those contexts. Such limits would
at least start us on the road back to the Constitution's origi-
nal meaning in the area of Indian law.

* * *

Page Proof
The Constitution Pending
confers enumerated Publication
powers on the Fed-
eral Government. Not one of them supports ICWA. Nor
does precedent. To the contrary, this Court has never up-
held a federal statute that regulates the noncommercial ac-
tivities of a U. S. citizen residing on lands under the sole
jurisdiction of States merely because he happens to be an
Indian. But that is exactly what ICWA does: It regulates
child custody proceedings, brought in state courts, for those
who need never have set foot on Indian lands. It is not
about tribal lands or tribal governments, commerce, treaties,
or federal property. It therefore fails equally under the
Court's precedents as it fails under the plain text and origi-
nal meaning of the Constitution.
If there is one saving grace to today's decision, it is that
the majority holds only that Texas has failed to demonstrate
that ICWA is unconstitutional. See ante, at 277–278, 280.
It declines to disturb the Fifth Circuit's conclusion that
ICWA is consistent with Article I, but without deciding that
ICWA is, in fact, consistent with Article I. But, given
372 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Alito, J., dissenting

ICWA's patent intrusion into the normal domain of state gov-
ernment and clear departure from the Federal Government's
enumerated powers, I would hold that Congress lacked any
authority to enact ICWA.
I respectfully dissent.

Justice Alito, dissenting.
The frst line in the Court's opinion identifes what is most
important about these cases: they are “about children who
are among the most vulnerable.” Ante, at 263. But after
that opening nod, the Court loses sight of this overriding
concern and decides one question after another in a way that
disserves the rights and interests of these children and their
parents, as well as our Constitution's division of federal and
state authority.
Decisions about child custody, foster care, and adoption are
core state functions. The paramount concern in these cases
Page Proof Pending Publication
has long been the “best interests” of the children involved.
See, e. g., 3 T. Zeller, Family Law and Practice §§ 32.06, 32.08
(2022); 6 id., § 64.06. But in many cases, provisions of the
Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) compel actions that confict
with this fundamental state policy, subordinating what
family-court judges—and often biological parents—deter-
mine to be in the best interest of a child to what Congress
believed is in the best interest of a tribe.
The cases involved in this litigation illustrate the distress-
ing consequences. To its credit, the Court acknowledges
what happened to these children, but its decision does noth-
ing to prevent the repetition of similar events. Take
A. L. M. His adoption by a loving non-Indian couple, with
whom he had lived for over a year and had developed a
strong emotional bond, was initially blocked even though it
was supported by both of his biological parents, his grand-
mother, and the testimony of both his court-appointed guard-
ian and a psychological expert. Because a Tribe objected,
he would have been sent to an Indian couple that he did not
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 373

Alito, J., dissenting

know in another State had the non-Indian couple not sought
and obtained an emergency judicial order.
Baby O.'s story is similar. A non-Indian couple welcomed
Baby O. into their home when she was three days old and
cared for her for more than two years while seeking to adopt
her. The couple ensured that Baby O.'s serious medical
needs were met and maintained regular visits with Baby O.'s
biological mother so that Baby O. could have a continuing
relationship with her biological family. Even though both
biological parents supported the couple's adoption of Baby
O., a Tribe objected and sought to send Baby O. to live in
foster care on a reservation in another State. Only after
the couple joined this lawsuit did the Tribe agree to a settle-
ment that would permit the couple to fnalize the adoption.
After nearly two years moving between foster-care place-
ments, Child P., whose maternal grandmother is a member
of an Indian Tribe, was placed with a non-Indian couple who
Page Proof Pending Publication
provided her a stable home. After the placement, the Tribe,
which had told the state court years earlier that Child P. was
not eligible for tribal membership, reversed its position with-
out explanation and enrolled her as a member. The Tribe
then objected to the couple's efforts to adopt Child P., even
though her court-appointed guardian believed that the adop-
tion was in Child P.'s best interest. “To comply with
ICWA,” the state court removed Child P. from the couple's
custody and placed her with her maternal grandmother,
“who had lost her foster license due to a criminal conviction.”
Ante, at 270 (majority opinion).
Does the Constitution give Congress the authority to
bring about such results? I would hold that it does not.
Whatever authority Congress possesses in the area of Indian
affairs, it does not have the power to sacrifce the best inter-
ests of vulnerable children to promote the interests of tribes
in maintaining membership. Nor does Congress have the
power to force state judges to disserve the best interests of
children or the power to delegate to tribes the authority to
374 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Alito, J., dissenting

force those judges to abide by the tribes' priorities regarding
adoption and foster-care placement.

I
The Court makes a valiant effort to bring coherence to
what has been said in past cases about Congress's power
in this area, but its attempt falls short. At the end of a
lengthy discussion, the majority distills only this nugget:
Congress's power over Indian affairs is “plenary” but not
“absolute.” Ante, at 276. The majority in today's cases did
not coin this formulation; it merely repeats what earlier
cases have said. See, e. g., Delaware Tribal Business
Comm. v. Weeks, 430 U. S. 73, 84 (1977) (quoting United
States v. Alcea Band of Tillamooks, 329 U. S. 40, 54 (1946)
(plurality opinion)). But the formulation's pedigree cannot
make up for its vacuity. The term “plenary” is defned in
one dictionary after another as “absolute.” See, e. g., New
Page Proof Pending Publication
Oxford American Dictionary 1343 (3d ed. 2010); Webster's
Third New International Dictionary 1739 (2002); The Ran-
dom House Dictionary of the English Language 1486 (2d ed.
1987). If we accept these defnitions, what the Court says
is that absolute ≠ absolute and plenary ≠ plenary, violating
one of the most basic laws of logic. Surely we can do better
than that.
We need not map the outer bounds of Congress's Indian
affairs authority to hold that the challenged provisions of
ICWA lie outside it. We need only acknowledge that even
so-called plenary powers cannot override foundational con-
stitutional constraints. By attempting to control state judi-
cial proceedings in a feld long-recognized to be the virtually
exclusive province of the States, ICWA violates the funda-
mental structure of our constitutional order.
In reaching this conclusion, I do not question the proposi-
tion that Congress has broad power to regulate Indian af-
fairs. We have “consistently described” Congress's “powers
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 375

Alito, J., dissenting

to legislate in respect to Indian tribes” as “ `plenary and ex-
clusive.' ” United States v. Lara, 541 U. S. 193, 200 (2004)
(collecting cases). Refecting this understanding, we have
sanctioned a wide range of enactments that bear on Indian
tribes and their members, sometimes (regrettably) without
tracing the source of Congress's authority to a particular
enumerated power. See, e. g., Santa Clara Pueblo v. Marti-
nez, 436 U. S. 49, 56–58 (1978) (modifying tribal govern-
ments' powers of self-government); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S. 553, 565–566 (1903) (transferring tribal land). Nor
do I dispute the notion that Congress has undertaken re-
sponsibilities that have been roughly analogized to those of
a trustee. In exercising its constitutionally-granted powers,
the Federal Government, “following `a humane and self im-
posed policy,' ” has committed itself to “ `moral obligations of
the highest responsibility and trust' ” to the Indian people.
United States v. Jicarilla Apache Nation, 564 U. S. 162,
176 (2011).1
Page Proof Pending Publication
Nevertheless, we have repeatedly cautioned that Con-
gress's Indian affairs power is not unbounded. And while
we have articulated few limits, we have acknowledged what
should be one obvious constraint: Congress's authority to
regulate Indian affairs is limited by other “pertinent consti-
tutional restrictions” that circumscribe the legislative power.
United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 103, 109–110 (1935);
see also New York v. United States, 505 U. S. 144, 156 (1992)
(“Congress exercises its conferred powers subject to the lim-
itations contained in the Constitution”).
1
The state of affairs on many Indian reservations, however, does not
speak well of the way in which these duties have been discharged by this
putative trustee. See, e. g., U. S. Commission on Civil Rights, Broken
Promises: Continuing Federal Funding Shortfall for Native Americans
102–107, 135–138, 156–157, 165–166 (Dec. 2018) (discussing poor perform-
ance of students in tribal schools, substandard housing and physical infra-
structure on reservations, and high rates of unemployment among Indians
living on reservations).
376 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Alito, J., dissenting

For example, in Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517
U. S. 44 (1996), we held that Congress's power under the In-
dian Commerce Clause was limited by “the background prin-
ciple of state sovereign immunity embodied in the Eleventh
Amendment.” Id., at 72. We rejected the Tribe's argu-
ment that Congress's Indian affairs power could exceed other
constitutional restrictions when “necessary” to “ `protect the
tribes' ” from state interference. Id., at 60. Foundational
constitutional principles like state sovereign immunity, we
observed, are “not so ephemeral as to dissipate when the
subject of the suit is [in] an area, like the regulation of Indian
commerce, that is under the exclusive control of the Federal
Government.” Id., at 72. Even when we have sustained
legislation, we have cautioned against congressional over-
reach. See Lara, 541 U. S., at 203–205. We have suggested
that a law may exceed Congress's power to regulate Indian
affairs if it has “an unusual legislative objective,” brings
about “radical changes in tribal status,” or “interfere[s] with
Page Proof Pending Publication
the power or authority of any State.” Ibid.
We have rarely had occasion to enforce these limits, in part
because the enactments before us have often fallen comfort-
ably within the historical bounds of Congress's enumerated
powers. See ante, at 365–371 (Thomas, J., dissenting).
But that does not mean that we should shy away from en-
forcement when presented with a statute that exceeds what
the Constitution allows.
II
Congress's power in the area of Indian affairs cannot ex-
ceed the limits imposed by the “system of dual sovereignty
between the States and the Federal Government” estab-
lished by the Constitution. Gregory v. Ashcroft, 501 U. S.
452, 457 (1991). “The powers delegated . . . to the federal
government are few and defned,” while “[t]hose which . . .
remain in the State governments are numerous and indef-
nite.” The Federalist No. 45, p. 292 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961)
(J. Madison). The powers retained by the States constitute
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 377

Alito, J., dissenting

“ `a residuary and inviolable sovereignty,' ” secure against
federal intrusion. Printz v. United States, 521 U. S. 898, 919
(1997) (quoting The Federalist No. 39, at 245 (J. Madison)).
This structural principle, reinforced in the Tenth Amend-
ment, “confrms that the power of the Federal Government
is subject to limits that may, in a given instance, reserve
power to the States.” New York, 505 U. S., at 157. The
corollary is also true: in some circumstances, the powers re-
served to the States inform the scope of Congress's power.
Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 584 U. S.
–––, ––– (2018). This includes in the area of Indian affairs.
Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 340, 353 (1908) (Congress's
primacy over Indian tribes and States' “full and complete
jurisdiction over all persons and things within [their] limits”
are “fundamental principles . . . of equal dignity, and neither
must be so enforced as to nullify or substantially impair the
other”).
Page Proof Pending Publication
While we have never comprehensively enumerated the
States' reserved powers, we have long recognized that gov-
ernance of family relations—including marriage relation-
ships and child custody—is among them. It is not merely
that these matters “have traditionally been governed by
state law” or that the responsibility over them “remains pri-
marily with the States,” ante, at 276 (majority opinion), but
that the feld of domestic relations “has long been regarded
as a virtually exclusive province of the States,” Sosna v.
Iowa, 419 U. S. 393, 404 (1975) (emphasis added). “The
whole subject of the domestic relations of husband and wife,
parent and child, belongs to the laws of the States and not
to the laws of the United States.” In re Burrus, 136 U. S.
586, 593–594 (1890). “Cases decided by this Court over a
period of more than a century bear witness to this historical
fact.” Sosna, 419 U. S., at 404. See, e. g., United States v.
Windsor, 570 U. S. 744, 766 (2013); McCarty v. McCarty, 453
U. S. 210, 220 (1981); Simms v. Simms, 175 U. S. 162, 167
(1899); Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 722, 734–735 (1878).
378 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Alito, J., dissenting

This does not mean that federal law may never touch on
family matters. As the majority observes, ante, at 277, we
have held that federal legislation that regulates certain “eco-
nomic aspects of domestic relations” can preempt conficting
state law. Ridgway v. Ridgway, 454 U. S. 46, 55–56 (1981)
(providing an order of precedence for benefciaries of a serv-
ice member's life insurance policy); see, e. g., Hillman v.
Maretta, 569 U. S. 483, 485–486 (2013) (allocating federal
death benefts); McCarty, 453 U. S., at 211, 235–236 (allocat-
ing military retirement pay). But we have never held that
Congress under any of its enumerated powers may regulate
the very nature of those relations or dictate their creation,
dissolution, or modifcation. Nor could we and remain faith-
ful to our founding. “No one denies that the States, at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution, possessed full power
over” ordinary family relations; and “the Constitution dele-
gated no authority to the Government of the United States”
Page Proof Pending Publication
in this area. Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 562, 575 (1906).
It is a “most important aspect of our federalism” that “the
domestic relations of husband and wife”—and parent and
child—are “matters reserved to the States and do not belong
to the United States.” Williams v. North Carolina, 325
U. S. 226, 233 (1945) (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted).
As part of that reserved power, state courts have resolved
child custody matters arising among state citizens since the
earliest days of the Nation. See, e. g., Nickols v. Giles, 2
Root 461, 461–462 (Conn. Super. Ct. 1796) (declining to re-
move daughter from mother's care); Wright v. Wright, 2
Mass. 109, 110–111 (1806) (awarding custody of child to
mother following divorce); Commonwealth v. Nutt, 1 Browne
143, 145 (Pa. Ct. Common Pleas 1810) (assigning custody of
child to her sister). Then, as now, state courts' overriding
concern was the best interests of the children. See, e. g.,
Commonwealth v. Addicks, 5 Binn. 520, 521 (Pa. 1813)
(court's “anxiety is principally directed” to the child's wel-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 379

Alito, J., dissenting

fare); In re Waldron, 13 Johns. Cas. 418, 421 (N. Y. Sup. Ct.
1816) (court is “principally to be directed” by “the beneft
and welfare” of the child). By the mid-19th century, States
had begun enacting statutory adoption schemes, enforceable
through state courts, “to provide for the welfare of depend-
ent children,” starting with Massachusetts in 1851. S.
Presser, The Historical Background of the American Law of
Adoption, 11 J. Fam. L. 443, 453, 465 (1971) (Presser); 1851
Mass. Acts ch. 324. Over the next 25 years, 23 other States
followed suit. Presser 465–466, and nn. 111, 112. As the
cases before us attest, this historic tradition of state over-
sight of child custody and welfare through state judicial pro-
ceedings continues to the present day.
The ICWA provisions challenged here do not simply run
up against this traditional state authority, they run rough-
shod over it when the State seeks to protect one of its young
citizens who also happens to be a member of an Indian tribe
Page Proof Pending Publication
or who is the biological child of a member and eligible for
tribal membership, herself. 25 U. S. C. § 1903(4). In those
circumstances, ICWA requires a State to abandon the
carefully-considered judicial procedures and standards it has
established to provide for a child's welfare and instead apply
a scheme devised by Congress that focuses not solely on the
best interest of the child, but also on “the stability and secu-
rity of Indian tribes.” § 1902. That scheme requires States
to invite tribal authorities with no existing relationship to a
child to intervene in judicial custody proceedings, §§ 1911(c),
1912(a), 1914. It requires States to replace their reasoned
standards for termination of parental rights and placement
in foster care with standards that favor the interests of an
Indian custodian over those of the child. §§ 1912(e), (f). It
forces state courts to give Indian couples (even those of dif-
ferent tribes) priority in adoption and foster-care place-
ments, even over a non-Indian couple who would better serve
a child's emotional and other needs. §§ 1915(a), (b). And
it requires state judges to subordinate the State's typical
380 HAALAND v. BRACKEEN

Alito, J., dissenting

custodial considerations to a tribe's alternative preference.
§ 1915(c).
It is worth underscoring that ICWA's directives apply
even when the child is not a member of a tribe and has never
been involved in tribal life, and even when a child's biological
parents object. As seen in the cases before us, the sad con-
sequence is that ICWA's provisions may delay or prevent a
child's adoption by a family ready to provide her a perma-
nent home.
ICWA's mandates do not simply touch on family matters.
They override States' authority to determine—and imple-
ment through their courts—the child custody and welfare
policies they deem most appropriate for their citizens. And
in doing so, the mandates harm vulnerable children and their
parents. In my view, the Constitution cannot countenance
this result. The guarantee of dual sovereignty embodied in
the constitutional structure “is not so ephemeral as to dissi-
pate” simply because Congress invoked a so-called plenary
Page Proof Pending Publication
power. Seminole Tribe of Fla., 517 U. S., at 72. The chal-
lenged ICWA provisions effectively “nullify” a State's au-
thority to conduct state child custody proceedings in accord-
ance with its own preferred family relations policies, a
prerogative that States have exercised for centuries. Dick,
208 U. S., at 353. Congress's Indian affairs power, broad as
it is, does not extend that far.2

2
Because ICWA's provisions comprise a comprehensive child custody
scheme relevant only to state court proceedings, I generally do not believe
they can be severed without engaging in “quintessentially legislative
work.” Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of Northern New Eng., 546 U. S.
320, 329 (2006). An exception is § 1911(a), which gives Indian tribes exclu-
sive jurisdiction over child custody proceedings involving Indian children
living within a reservation; that section is not implicated by my analysis.
See also Fisher v. District Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., 424
U. S. 382, 383, 388–389 (1976) (per curiam) (recognizing exclusive tribal
court jurisdiction over adoption proceedings, where all parties are mem-
bers of a tribe living on a reservation).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 255 (2023) 381

Alito, J., dissenting

The indicators we previously identifed also signal that
ICWA exceeds Congress's constitutional bounds. See Lara,
541 U. S., at 203–205. First, the law has “an unusual legisla-
tive objective.” Id., at 203. ICWA's attempt to control
local judicial proceedings in a core feld of state concern de-
parts signifcantly from other Indian affairs legislation that
we have sanctioned—laws that typically regulated actual
commerce, related to tribal lands and governance, or fulflled
treaty obligations. See ante, at 365–371 (Thomas, J., dis-
senting). Second, the law brings about “radical changes in
tribal status,” effectively granting tribes veto power over
state judgments regarding the welfare of resident Indian
children. Lara, 541 U. S., at 205. And third, the law “in-
terfere[s] with the power [and] authority of [every] State” in
the conduct of state judicial proceedings and determination
of child custody arrangements. Ibid. That is, in fact, its
express design. See, e. g., §§ 1911(c), 1912, 1915. These in-
dicators confrm that ICWA surpasses even a generous un-
Page Proof Pending Publication
derstanding of Congress's Indian affairs authority.

* * *
I am sympathetic to the challenges that tribes face in
maintaining membership and preserving their cultures.
And I do not question the idea that the best interests of
children may in some circumstances take into account a de-
sire to enable children to maintain a connection with the cul-
ture of their ancestors. The Constitution provides Congress
with many means for promoting such interests. But the
Constitution does not permit Congress to displace long-
exercised state authority over child custody proceedings to
advance those interests at the expense of vulnerable children
and their families.
Because I would hold that Congress lacked authority
to enact the challenged ICWA provisions, I respectfully
dissent.
 Reporter’s Note

The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication
and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination
makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of
publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions
for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of
the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and
Page Proof Pending Publication
who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was
argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may
include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant
punctuation. The following additional edits were made:

p. 209, line 13: “country” is replaced with “county”
p. 314, line 12: “Mohegan” is replaced with “Moheagan”
p. 319, line 2: “Updike” is inserted before “Toler”
p. 341, line 11: “Updike” is inserted before “Toler”
p. 371, line 4: “scenarios” is replaced with “categories”


=== SCOTUS Slip Opinion: 599us1r33_dc8f ===

PRELIMINARY PRINT

Volume 599 U. S. Part 1
Pages 1–109

OFFICIAL REPORTS
OF

THE SUPREME COURT
June 8, 2023

Page Proof Pending Publication

REBECCA A. WOMELDORF
reporter of decisions

NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before
the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter
of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors.
 CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 2022

ALLEN, ALABAMA SECRETARY OF STATE, et al. v.
MILLIGAN et al.
appeal from the united states district court for the
northern district of alabama

Page Proof Pending Publication
No. 21–1086. Argued October 4, 2022—Decided June 8, 2023*
The issue presented is whether the districting plan adopted by the State
of Alabama for its 2022 congressional elections likely violated § 2 of the
Voting Rights Act, 52 U. S. C. § 10301. As originally enacted in 1965,
§ 2 of the Act tracked the language of the Fifteenth Amendment, provid-
ing that “[t]he right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be
denied or abridged . . . on account of race, color, or previous condition
of servitude.” In City of Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S. 55, this Court
held that the Fifteenth Amendment—and thus § 2—prohibits States
from acting with a “racially discriminatory motivation” or an “invidious
purpose” to discriminate, but it does not prohibit laws that are discrimi-
natory only in effect. Id., at 61–65 (plurality opinion). Criticism fol-
lowed, with many viewing Mobile's intent test as not suffciently protec-
tive of voting rights. But others believed that adoption of an effects
test would inevitably require a focus on proportionality, calling voting
laws into question whenever a minority group won fewer seats in the
legislature than its share of the population. Congress ultimately re-
solved this debate in 1982, reaching a bipartisan compromise that

*Together with No. 21–1087, Allen, Alabama Secretary of State, et al.
v. Caster et al., on certiorari before judgment to the United States Court
of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.
1
2 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Syllabus

amended § 2 to incorporate both an effects test and a robust disclaimer
that “nothing” in § 2 “establishes a right to have members of a protected
class elected in numbers equal to their proportion in the population.”
§ 10301(b).
In 1992, § 2 litigation challenging the State of Alabama's then-existing
districting map resulted in the State's frst majority-black district and,
subsequently, the State's frst black Representative since 1877. Ala-
bama's congressional map has remained remarkably similar since that
litigation. Following the 2020 decennial census, a group of plaintiffs led
by Alabama legislator Bobby Singleton sued the State, arguing that
the State's population growth rendered the existing congressional map
malapportioned and racially gerrymandered in violation of the Equal
Protection Clause. While litigation was proceeding, the Alabama Leg-
islature's Committee on Reapportionment drew a new districting map
that would refect the distribution of the prior decade's population
growth across the State. The resulting map largely resembled the 2011
map on which it was based and similarly produced only one district in
which black voters constituted a majority. That new map was signed
into law as HB1.
Three groups of Alabama citizens brought suit seeking to stop Ala-

Page Proof Pending Publication
bama's Secretary of State from conducting congressional elections under
HB1. One group (Caster plaintiffs) challenged HB1 as invalid under
§ 2. Another group (Milligan plaintiffs) brought claims under § 2 and
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. And a
third group (the Singleton plaintiffs) amended the complaint in their
ongoing litigation to challenge HB1 as a racial gerrymander under the
Equal Protection Clause. A three-judge District Court was convened,
and the Singleton and Milligan actions were consolidated before that
District Court for purposes of preliminary injunction proceedings, while
Caster proceeded before one of the judges on a parallel track. After
an extensive hearing, the District Court concluded in a 227-page opinion
that the question whether HB1 likely violated § 2 was not “close.” The
Court preliminarily enjoined Alabama from using HB1 in forthcoming
elections. The same relief was ordered in Caster.
Held: The Court affrms the District Court's determination that plaintiffs
demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of success on their claim that HB1
violates § 2. Pp. 17–30, 33–42.
(a) The District Court faithfully applied this Court's precedents in
concluding that HB1 likely violates § 2. Pp. 17–23.
(1) This Court frst addressed the 1982 amendments to § 2 in Thorn-
burg v. Gingles, 478 U. S. 30, and has for the last 37 years evaluated § 2
claims using the Gingles framework. Gingles described the “essence
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 3

Syllabus

of a § 2 claim” as when “a certain electoral law, practice, or structure
interacts with social and historical conditions to cause an inequality in
the opportunities enjoyed by black and white voters.” Id., at 47. That
occurs where an “electoral structure operates to minimize or cancel out”
minority voters' “ability to elect their preferred candidates.” Id., at 48.
Such a risk is greatest “where minority and majority voters consistently
prefer different candidates” and where minority voters are submerged
in a majority voting population that “regularly defeat[s]” their choices.
Ibid.
To prove a § 2 violation under Gingles, plaintiffs must satisfy three
“preconditions.” Id., at 50. First, the “minority group must be suff-
ciently large and [geographically] compact to constitute a majority in a
reasonably confgured district.” Wisconsin Legislature v. Wisconsin
Elections Comm'n, 595 U. S. 398, 402 (per curiam). “Second, the mi-
nority group must be able to show that it is politically cohesive.” Gin-
gles, 478 U. S., at 51. And third, “the minority must be able to demon-
strate that the white majority votes suffciently as a bloc to enable it
. . . to defeat the minority's preferred candidate.” Ibid. A plaintiff
who demonstrates the three preconditions must then show, under the
“totality of circumstances,” that the challenged political process is not
“equally open” to minority voters. Id., at 45–46. The totality of cir-
Page Proof Pending Publication
cumstances inquiry recognizes that application of the Gingles factors is
fact dependent and requires courts to conduct “an intensely local ap-
praisal” of the electoral mechanism at issue, as well as a “searching
practical evaluation of the `past and present reality.' ” Id., at 79. Con-
gress has not disturbed the Court's understanding of § 2 as Gingles con-
strued it nearly 40 years ago. Pp. 17–19.
(2) The extensive record in these cases supports the District
Court's conclusion that plaintiffs' § 2 claim was likely to succeed under
Gingles. As to the frst Gingles precondition, the District Court cor-
rectly found that black voters could constitute a majority in a second
district that was “reasonably confgured.” The plaintiffs adduced
eleven illustrative districting maps that Alabama could enact, at least
one of which contained two majority-black districts that comported with
traditional districting criteria. With respect to the compactness crite-
ria, for example, the District Court explained that the maps submitted
by one expert “perform[ed] generally better on average than” did HB1,
and contained no “bizarre shapes, or any other obvious irregularities.”
Plaintiffs' maps contained equal populations, were contiguous, and re-
spected existing political subdivisions. Indeed, some of plaintiffs' pro-
posed maps split the same (or even fewer) county lines than the State's.
The Court fnds unpersuasive the State's argument that plaintiffs'
maps were not reasonably confgured because they failed to keep to-
4 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Syllabus

gether the Gulf Coast region. Even if that region is a traditional com-
munity of interest, the District Court found the evidence insuffcient to
sustain Alabama's argument that no legitimate reason could exist to
split it. Moreover, the District Court found that plaintiffs' maps were
reasonably confgured because they joined together a different commu-
nity of interest called the Black Belt—a community with a high propor-
tion of similarly situated black voters who share a lineal connection to
“the many enslaved people brought there to work in the antebellum
period.”
As to the second and third Gingles preconditions, the District Court
determined that there was “no serious dispute that Black voters are
politically cohesive, nor that the challenged districts' white majority
votes suffciently as a bloc to usually defeat Black voters' preferred can-
didate.” The court noted that, “on average, Black voters supported
their candidates of choice with 92.3% of the vote” while “white voters
supported Black-preferred candidates with 15.4% of the vote.” Even
Alabama's expert conceded “that the candidates preferred by white vot-
ers in the areas that he looked at regularly defeat the candidates pre-
ferred by Black voters.” Finally, the District Court concluded that
plaintiffs had carried their burden at the totality of circumstances stage
given the racial polarization of elections in Alabama, where “Black Ala-
Page Proof Pending Publication
bamians enjoy virtually zero success in statewide elections” and where
“Alabama's extensive history of repugnant racial and voting-related dis-
crimination is undeniable and well documented.” The Court sees no
reason to disturb the District Court's careful factual fndings, which are
subject to clear error review and have gone unchallenged by Alabama
in any event. Pp. 19–23.
(b) The Court declines to remake its § 2 jurisprudence in line with
Alabama's “race-neutral benchmark” theory. Pp. 23–30.
(1) The Court rejects the State's contention that adopting the race-
neutral benchmark as the point of comparison in § 2 cases would best
match the text of the VRA. Section 2 requires political processes in a
State to be “equally open” such that minority voters do not “have
less opportunity than other members of the electorate to participate in
the political process and to elect representatives of their choice.”
§ 10301(b). Under the Court's precedents, a district is not equally open
when minority voters face—unlike their majority peers—bloc voting
along racial lines, arising against the backdrop of substantial racial dis-
crimination within the State, that renders a minority vote unequal to a
vote by a nonminority voter. Alabama would ignore this precedent in
favor of a rationale that a State's map cannot “abridge[ ]” a person's
right to vote “on account of race” if the map resembles a suffcient num-
ber of race-neutral alternatives. But this Court's cases have consist-
ently focused, for purposes of litigation, on the specifc illustrative maps
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 5

Syllabus

that a plaintiff adduces. Deviation from that map shows it is possible
that the State's map has a disparate effect on account of race. The
remainder of the Gingles test helps determine whether that possibility
is reality by looking to polarized voting preferences and the frequency
of racially discriminatory actions taken by the State.
The Court declines to adopt Alabama's interpretation of § 2, which
would “revise and reformulate the Gingles threshold inquiry that has
been the baseline of [the Court's] § 2 jurisprudence” for decades. Bart-
lett v. Strickland, 556 U. S. 1, 16 (plurality opinion). Pp. 23–26.
(2) Alabama argues that absent a benchmark, the Gingles frame-
work ends up requiring the racial proportionality in districting that
§ 2(b) forbids. The Court's decisions implementing § 2 demonstrate,
however, that when properly applied, the Gingles framework itself im-
poses meaningful constraints on proportionality. See Shaw v. Reno, 509
U. S. 630, 633–634; Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S. 900, 906; Bush v. Vera,
517 U. S. 952, 957 (plurality opinion). In Shaw v. Reno, for example,
the Court considered the permissibility of a second majority-minority
district in North Carolina, which at the time had 12 seats in the U. S.
House of Representatives and a 20% black voting age population. 509
U. S., at 633–634. Though North Carolina believed § 2 required a sec-
ond majority-minority district, the Court found North Carolina's ap-
Page Proof Pending Publication
proach an impermissible racial gerrymander because the State had
“concentrated a dispersed minority population in a single district by
disregarding traditional districting principles such as compactness, con-
tiguity, and respect for political subdivisions.” Id., at 647.
The Court's decisions in Bush and Shaw similarly declined to require
additional majority-minority districts under § 2 where those districts did
not satisfy traditional districting principles.
The Court recognizes that reapportionment remains primarily the
duty and responsibility of the States, not the federal courts. Section 2
thus never requires adoption of districts that violate traditional redis-
tricting principles and instead limits judicial intervention to “those in-
stances of intensive racial politics” where the “excessive role [of race] in
the electoral process . . . den[ies] minority voters equal opportunity to
participate.” S. Rep. No. 97–417, pp. 33–34. Pp. 26–30.
(c) To apply its race-neutral benchmark in practice, Alabama would
require plaintiffs to make at least three showings. First, Alabama
would require § 2 plaintiffs to show that the illustrative maps adduced
for the frst Gingles precondition are not based on race. Alabama
would next graft onto § 2 a requirement that plaintiffs demonstrate, at
the totality of circumstances stage, that the State's enacted plan con-
tains fewer majority-minority districts than what an “average” race-
neutral plan would contain. And fnally, Alabama would have plaintiffs
prove that any deviation between the State's plan and a race-neutral
6 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Syllabus

plan is explainable “only” by race. The Court declines to adopt any of
these novel requirements.
Here, Alabama contends that because HB1 suffciently “resembles”
the “race-neutral” maps created by the State's experts—all of which
lack two majority-black districts—HB1 does not violate § 2. Alabama's
reliance on the maps created by its experts Dr. Duchin and Dr. Imai is
misplaced because those maps do not accurately represent the district-
ing process in Alabama. Regardless, the map-comparison test that Ala-
bama proposes is fawed in its fundamentals. Neither the text of § 2
nor the fraught debate that produced it suggests that “equal access” to
the fundamental right of voting turns on technically complicated com-
puter simulations. Further, while Alabama has repeatedly emphasized
that HB1 cannot have violated § 2 because none of plaintiffs' two million
odd maps contained more than one majority-minority district, that (al-
beit very big) number is close to irrelevant in practice, where experts
estimate the possible number of Alabama districting maps is at least in
the trillion trillions.
Alabama would also require plaintiffs to demonstrate that any devia-
tions between the State's enacted plan and race-neutral alternatives
“can be explained only by racial discrimination.” Brief for Alabama
44 (emphasis added). But the Court's precedents and the legislative
Page Proof Pending Publication
compromise struck in the 1982 amendments clearly rejected treating dis-
criminatory intent as a requirement for liability under § 2. Pp. 30, 33–38.
(d) The Court disagrees with Alabama's assertions that the Court
should stop applying § 2 in cases like these because the text of § 2 does
not apply to single-member redistricting and because § 2 is unconstitu-
tional as the District Court applied it here. Alabama's understanding
of § 2 would require abandoning four decades of the Court's § 2 prece-
dents. The Court has unanimously held that § 2 and the Gingles frame-
work apply to claims challenging single-member districts. Growe v.
Emison, 507 U. S. 25, 40. As Congress is undoubtedly aware of the
Court's construction of § 2 to apply to districting challenges, statutory
stare decisis counsels staying the course until and unless Congress acts.
In any event, the statutory text supports the conclusion that § 2 applies
to single-member districts. Indeed, the contentious debates in Con-
gress about proportionality would have made little sense if § 2's cover-
age was as limited as Alabama contends.
The Court similarly rejects Alabama's argument that § 2 as applied to
redistricting is unconstitutional under the Fifteenth Amendment. The
Court held over 40 years ago “that, even if § 1 of the [Fifteenth] Amend-
ment prohibits only purposeful discrimination,” City of Rome v. United
States, 446 U. S. 156, 173, the VRA's “ban on electoral changes that are
discriminatory in effect is an appropriate method of promoting the pur-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 7

Syllabus

poses of the Fifteenth Amendment,” id., at 177. Alabama's contention
that the Fifteenth Amendment does not authorize race-based redistrict-
ing as a remedy for § 2 violations similarly fails. The Court is not per-
suaded by Alabama's arguments that § 2 as interpreted in Gingles ex-
ceeds the remedial authority of Congress.
The Court's opinion does not diminish or disregard the concern that
§ 2 may impermissibly elevate race in the allocation of political power
within the States. Instead, the Court simply holds that a faithful appli-
cation of precedent and a fair reading of the record do not bear those
concerns out here. Pp. 38–42.
Nos. 21–1086, 582 F. Supp. 3d 924, and 21–1087, affrmed.

Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Part
III–B–1. Sotomayor, Kagan, and Jackson, JJ., joined that opinion in
full, and Kavanaugh, J., joined except for Part III–B–1. Kavanaugh, J.,
fled an opinion concurring in all but Part III–B–1, post, p. 42.
Thomas, J., fled a dissenting opinion, in which Gorsuch, J., joined, in
which Barrett, J., joined as to Parts II and III, and in which Alito, J.,
joined as to Parts II–A and II–B, post, p. 45. Alito, J., fled a dissenting
opinion, in which Gorsuch, J., joined, post, p. 95.

Page
EdmundProof
G. LaCour,Pending Publication
Jr., Solicitor General of Alabama, ar-
gued the cause for appellants/petitioners in both cases.
With him on the briefs were Steve Marshall, Attorney Gen-
eral of Alabama, A. Barrett Bowdre and Thomas A. Wilson,
Deputy Solicitors General, James W. Davis, Deputy Attor-
ney General, and Misty S. Fairbanks Messick, A. Reid Har-
ris, Brenton M. Smith, and Benjamin M. Seiss, Assistant
Attorneys General, Dorman Walker, Jeffrey M. Harris, and
Taylor A. R. Meehan.
Deuel Ross argued the cause for appellees in No. 21–1086.
With him on the brief were Davin M. Rosborough, Julie A.
Ebenstein, Dale E. Ho, Jessica L. Ellsworth, David Dunn,
Jo-Ann Tamila Sagar, Johannah Walker, Janai S. Nelson,
Samuel Spital, Leah C. Aden, Stuart Naifeh, Ashley Bur-
rell, Kathryn Sadasivan, Kaitlin Welborn. David D. Cole,
and Michael Turrill. Abha Khanna argued the cause for
respondents in No. 21–1087. With her on the brief were
Marc E. Elias, Lalitha D. Madduri, Daniel C. Osher, Joseph
N. Posimato, and Richard P. Rouco.
8 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Counsel

Solicitor General Prelogar argued the cause for the
United States as amicus curiae urging affrmance. With
her on the brief were Assistant Attorney General Clarke,
Deputy Solicitor General Fletcher, Christopher G. Michel,
Erin H. Flynn, and Noah B. Bokat-Lindell.†

†Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in both cases were fled for the
State of Louisiana et al. by Jeff Landry, Attorney General of Louisiana,
Elizabeth B. Murrill, Solicitor General, and Shae McPhee, Deputy Solici-
tor General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as
follows: Mark Brnovich of Arizona, Leslie Rutledge of Arkansas, Chris
Carr of Georgia, Todd Rokita of Indiana, Lynn Fitch of Mississippi, Eric
Schmitt of Missouri, Austin Knudsen of Montana, Doug Peterson of Ne-
braska, John O'Connor of Oklahoma, Alan Wilson of South Carolina, Ken
Paxton of Texas, Sean Reyes of Utah, and Patrick Morrisey of West Vir-
ginia; for the Alabama Center for Law and Liberty by Matthew J. Clark
and John J. Park, Jr.; for America First Legal by Christopher E. Mills,
Gene P. Hamilton, and Reed D. Rubinstein; for Citizens United et al. by
Bradley A. Benbrook and Stephen M. Duvernay; for the Coastal Alabama
Partnership by John C. Neiman, Jr.; for the Lawyers Democracy Fund by
Page Proof Pending Publication
Efrem Marshall Braden; for the National Republican Redistricting Trust
by Jason Torchinsky and Phillip M. Gordon; for the Project on Fair Rep-
resentation by Jonathan Berry and R. Trent McCotter; for the Public
Interest Legal Foundation by Kaylan Phillips; for the Republican Na-
tional Committee by David A. Warrington, Harmeet K. Dhillon, and
Gary M. Lawkowski; for United States Representatives from Alabama by
Mr. Mills; and for Sen. John Braun et al. by Charles R. Spies.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance in both cases were fled for the
District of Columbia et al. by Karl A. Racine, Attorney General of the
District of Columbia, Caroline S. Van Zile, Solicitor General, Ashwin
P. Phatak, Principal Deputy Solicitor General, Graham E. Phillips, Dep-
uty Solicitor General, and Adam J. Tuetken and Caroline W. Tan, Assist-
ant Attorneys General, Letitia James, Attorney General of New York,
Barbara D. Underwood, Solicitor General, Judith N. Vale, Deputy Solicitor
General, and Andrea W. Trento, Assistant Solicitor General, by Matthew
J. Platkin, Acting Attorney General of New Jersey, and by the Attorneys
General for their respective States as follows: Rob Bonta of California,
Philip J. Weiser of Colorado, William Tong of Connecticut, Kathleen Jen-
nings of Delaware, Holly T. Shikada of Hawaii, Kwame Raoul of Illinois,
Aaron M. Frey of Maine, Brian E. Frosh of Maryland, Maura Healey of
Massachusetts, Dana Nessel of Michigan, Keith Ellison of Minnesota,
Aaron D. Ford of Nevada, Ellen F. Rosenblum of Oregon, Josh Shapiro
of Pennsylvania, Peter F. Neronha of Rhode Island, Susanne R. Young
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 9

Opinion of the Court

Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the
Court, except as to Part III–B–1.*
In January 2022, a three-judge District Court sitting in
Alabama preliminarily enjoined the State from using the dis-
tricting plan it had recently adopted for the 2022 congres-
of Vermont, Robert W. Ferguson of Washington, and Joshua L. Kaul of
Wisconsin; for Alabama Historians by Roy T. Englert, Jr., and Carolyn M.
Forstein; for the American Bar Association by Reginald M. Turner, Mi-
chael R. Dreeben, Ephraim McDowell, and Megan Whisler; for the Bren-
nan Center for Justice by David A. O'Neil and Michael C. Li; for the
Campaign Legal Center by Mark P. Gaber and Paul M. Smith; for the
Central Alabama Fair Housing Center et al. by Rebecca Livengood and
Gabriel Diaz; for Computational Redistricting Experts by Sam Hirsch
and Jessica Ring Amunson; for the Constitutional Accountability Center
by Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod, and David H. Gans; for the
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law et al. by Damon T. Hew-
itt, Jon M. Greenbaum, Ezra D. Rosenberg, and Sheila L. Birnbaum; for
Local Governments by Joseph R. Palmore, Jonathan B. Miller, Anne L.
Morgan, Mark D. Griffn, Kristin M. Bronson, Arturo G. Michel, Michael
Page Proof Pending Publication
N. Feuer, Sylvia O. Hinds-Radix, Diana P. Cortes, Lyndsey M. Olson,
and James R. Williams; for the National Congress of American Indians
by Jacqueline De León, John E. Echohawk, Matthew Campbell, Colby
Duren, and Michael B. de Leeuw; for Republican Former Governors by
Kathleen Hartnett, Jonathan L. Williams, Adam S. Gershenson, Kristen
A. Johnson, Christine P. Sun, and Ranjana Natarajan; for the Southern
Poverty Law Center et al. by Noah N. Gillespie and Caren E. Short; for
UCLA Social Scientists by Chad W. Dunn and Bernadette Reyes; for Vot-
ing Rights Practitioners by Debo P. Adegbile and Edward Williams; for
U. W. Clemon et al. by Jeffrey T. Green, Marisa West, and Naomi Igra;
for Travis Crum by Demian A. Ordway and Mr. Crum, pro se; and for
U. S. House Representative Terri Sewell et al. by John Paul Schnapper-
Casteras and Carolyn E. Shapiro.
Robert A. Atkins, Jonathan H. Hurwitz, Allison Riggs, and Mitchell
Brown fled a brief for Press Robinson et al. as amici curiae urging af-
frmance in No. 21–1086.
Briefs of amici curiae were fled in both cases for the American Legisla-
tive Exchange Council by Jonathon P. Hauenschild; for the Bipartisan
Group of Senators et al. by Jeffrey P. Justman and Craig S. Coleman; for
the Singleton Plaintiffs by James Uriah Blacksher, Joe R. Whatley, Jr.,
Henry C. Quillen, and Eli Hare; for Jowei Chen et al. by Ruth Greenwood
and Theresa J. Lee; and for John Wahl by Albert L. Jordan.
*Justice Kavanaugh joins all but Part III–B–1 of this opinion.
10 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

sional elections, fnding that the plan likely violated Sec-
tion 2 of the Voting Rights Act, 52 U. S. C. § 10301. This
Court stayed the District Court's order pending further re-
view. 595 U. S. ––– (2022). After conducting that review,
we now affrm.
I
A
Shortly after the Civil War, Congress passed and the
States ratifed the Fifteenth Amendment, providing that
“[t]he right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not
be denied or abridged . . . on account of race, color, or previ-
ous condition of servitude.” U. S. Const., Amdt. 15, § 1. In
the century that followed, however, the Amendment proved
little more than a parchment promise. Jim Crow laws like
literacy tests, poll taxes, and “good-morals” requirements
abounded, South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 312–
313 (1966), “render[ing] the right to vote illusory for blacks,”
Page Proof Pending Publication
Northwest Austin Municipal Util. Dist. No. One v. Holder,
557 U. S. 193, 220–221 (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in judg-
ment in part and dissenting in part). Congress stood up to
little of it; “[t]he frst century of congressional enforcement
of the [Fifteenth] Amendment . . . can only be regarded as a
failure.” Id., at 197 (majority opinion).
That changed in 1965. Spurred by the Civil Rights move-
ment, Congress enacted and President Johnson signed into
law the Voting Rights Act. 79 Stat. 437, as amended, 52
U. S. C. § 10301 et seq. The Act “create[d] stringent new
remedies for voting discrimination,” attempting to forever
“banish the blight of racial discrimination in voting.” Kat-
zenbach, 383 U. S., at 308. By 1981, in only sixteen years'
time, many considered the VRA “the most successful civil
rights statute in the history of the Nation.” S. Rep. No. 97–
417, p. 111 (1982) (Senate Report).
These cases concern Section 2 of that Act. In its original
form, “§ 2 closely tracked the language of the [Fifteenth]
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 11

Opinion of the Court

Amendment” and, as a result, had little independent force.
Brnovich v. Democratic National Committee, 594 U. S.
–––, ––– (2021).1 Our leading case on § 2 at the time was
City of Mobile v. Bolden, which involved a claim by black
voters that the City's at-large election system effectively ex-
cluded them from participating in the election of city com-
missioners. 446 U. S. 55 (1980). The commission had three
seats, black voters comprised one-third of the City's popula-
tion, but no black-preferred candidate had ever won election.
The Court ruled against the plaintiffs. The Fifteenth
Amendment—and thus § 2—prohibits States from acting
with a “racially discriminatory motivation” or an “invidious
purpose” to discriminate. Id., at 61–65 (plurality opinion).
But it does not prohibit laws that are discriminatory only in
effect. Ibid. The Mobile plaintiffs could “register and vote
without hindrance”—“their freedom to vote ha[d] not been
denied or abridged by anyone.” Id., at 65. The fact that
they happened to lose frequently was beside the point.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Nothing the City had done “purposeful[ly] exclu[ded]” them
“from participati[ng] in the election process.” Id., at 64.
Almost immediately after it was decided, Mobile “pro-
duced an avalanche of criticism, both in the media and
within the civil rights community.” T. Boyd & S. Markman,
The 1982 Amendments to the Voting Rights Act: A Legis-
lative History, 40 Wash. & Lee L. Rev. 1347, 1355 (1983)
(Boyd & Markman). The New York Times wrote that the
decision represented “the biggest step backwards in civil
rights to come from the Nixon Court.” N. Y. Times, Apr. 23,
1980, p. A22. And the Washington Post described Mobile
as a “major defeat for blacks and other minorities fghting
electoral schemes that exclude them from offce.” Washing-

1
As originally enacted, § 2 provided that “[n]o voting qualifcation or
prerequisite to voting, or standard, practice, or procedure shall be imposed
or applied by any State or political subdivision to deny or abridge the
right of any citizen of the United States to vote on account of race or
color.” 42 U. S. C. § 1973 (1970 ed.).
12 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

ton Post, Apr. 23, 1980, p. A5. By focusing on discrimi-
natory intent and ignoring disparate effect, critics argued,
the Court had abrogated “the standard used by the courts
to determine whether [racial] discrimination existed . . . :
Whether such discrimination existed.” It's Results That
Count, Philadelphia Inquirer, Mar. 3, 1982, p. 8–A.
But Mobile had its defenders, too. In their view, aban-
doning the intent test in favor of an effects test would inevi-
tably require a focus on proportionality—wherever a minor-
ity group won fewer seats in the legislature than its share of
the population, the charge could be made that the State law
had a discriminatory effect. That, after all, was the type
of claim brought in Mobile. But mandating racial propor-
tionality in elections was regarded by many as intolerable.
Doing so, wrote Senator Orrin Hatch in the Washington Star,
would be “strongly resented by the American public. ”
Washington Star, Sept. 30, 1980, p. A–9. The Wall Street
Page Proof Pending Publication
Journal offered similar criticism. An effects test would gen-
erate “more, not less, racial and ethnic polarization.” Wall
Street Journal, Jan. 19, 1982, p. 28.
This sharp debate arrived at Congress's doorstep in 1981.
The question whether to broaden § 2 or keep it as is, said
Hatch—by then Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee be-
fore which § 2 would be debated—“involve[d] one of the most
substantial constitutional issues ever to come before this
body.” 2 Hearings before the Subcommittee on the Consti-
tution of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 97th Cong.,
2d Sess., pt. 1, p. 1 (1982).
Proceedings in Congress mirrored the disagreement that
had developed around the country. In April 1981, Congress-
man Peter W. Rodino, Jr.—longtime chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee—introduced a bill to amend the VRA,
proposing that the words “to deny or abridge” in § 2 be re-
placed with the phrase “in a manner which results in a de-
nial or abridgement.” H. R. 3112, 97th Cong., 1st Sess., 2
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 13

Opinion of the Court

(as introduced) (emphasis added). This was the effects test
that Mobile's detractors sought.
But those wary of proportionality were not far behind.
Senator Hatch argued that the effects test “was intelligible
only to the extent that it approximated a standard of pro-
portional representation by race.” Boyd & Markman 1392.
The Attorney General had the same concern. The effects
test “would be triggered whenever election results did not
mirror the population mix of a particular community,” he
wrote, producing “essentially a quota system for electoral
politics.” N. Y. Times, Mar. 27, 1982, p. 23.
The impasse was not resolved until late April 1982, when
Senator Bob Dole proposed a compromise. Boyd & Mark-
man 1414. Section 2 would include the effects test that
many desired but also a robust disclaimer against propor-
tionality. Seeking to navigate any tension between the two,
the Dole Amendment borrowed language from a Fourteenth
Amendment case of ours, White v. Regester, 412 U. S. 755
Page Proof Pending Publication
(1973), which many in Congress believed would allow courts
to consider effects but avoid proportionality. The standard
for liability in voting cases, White explained, was whether
“the political processes leading to nomination and election
were not equally open to participation by the group in ques-
tion—[in] that its members had less opportunity than did
other residents in the district to participate in the politi-
cal processes and to elect legislators of their choice.” Id.,
at 766.
The Dole compromise won bipartisan support and, on
June 18, the Senate passed the 1982 amendments by an over-
whelming margin, 85– 8. Eleven days later, President
Reagan signed the Act into law. The amended § 2 reads as
follows:
“(a) No voting qualifcation or prerequisite to voting
or standard, practice, or procedure shall be imposed or
applied by any State or political subdivision in a manner
14 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

which results in a denial or abridgement of the right of
any citizen of the United States to vote on account of
race or color . . . as provided in subsection (b).
“(b) A violation of subsection (a) is established if,
based on the totality of circumstances, it is shown that
the political processes leading to nomination or election
in the State or political subdivision are not equally open
to participation by members of a class of citizens . . .
in that its members have less opportunity than other
members of the electorate to participate in the political
process and to elect representatives of their choice.
The extent to which members of a protected class have
been elected to offce in the State or political subdivision
is one circumstance which may be considered: Provided,
That nothing in this section establishes a right to have
members of a protected class elected in numbers equal
to their proportion in the population.” 52 U. S. C.
§ 10301.
Page Proof Pending Publication B
For the frst 115 years following Reconstruction, the State
of Alabama elected no black Representatives to Congress.
See Singleton v. Merrill, 582 F. Supp. 3d 924, 947 (ND Ala.
2022) (per curiam). In 1992, several plaintiffs sued the
State, alleging that it had been impermissibly diluting the
votes of black Alabamians in violation of § 2. See Wesch v.
Hunt, 785 F. Supp. 1491, 1493 (SD Ala.). The lawsuit
produced a majority-black district in Alabama for the frst
time in decades. Id., at 1499. And that fall, Birmingham
lawyer Earl Hilliard became the frst black Representative
from Alabama since 1877. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 947.
Alabama's congressional map has “remained remarkably
similar” after Wesch. Brief for Appellants in No. 21–1086
etc., p. 9 (Brief for Alabama). The map contains seven con-
gressional districts, each with a single representative. See
Supp. App. 205–211; 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 951. District 1 en-
compasses the Gulf Coast region in the southwest; Dis-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 15

Opinion of the Court

trict 2—known as the Wiregrass region—occupies the south-
east; District 3 covers the eastern-central part of the State;
Districts 4 and 5 stretch width-wise across the north, with
the latter layered atop the former; District 6 is right in the
State's middle; and District 7 spans the central west. Id.,
at 951.
In 2020, the decennial census revealed that Alabama's pop-
ulation had grown by 5.1%. See 1 App. 86. A group of
plaintiffs led by Alabama legislator Bobby Singleton sued
the State, arguing that the existing congressional map was
malapportioned and racially gerrymandered in violation of
the Equal Protection Clause. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 938–939.
While litigation was proceeding, the Alabama Legislature's
Committee on Reapportionment began creating a new dis-
tricting map. Ibid. Although the prior decade's population
growth did not change the number of seats that Alabama
would receive in the House, the growth had been unevenly
Page Proof Pending Publication
distributed across the State, and the existing map was thus
out of date.
To solve the problem, the State turned to experienced
mapmaker Randy Hinaman, who had created several dis-
tricting maps that Alabama used over the past 30 years.
Id., at 947–948. The starting point for Hinaman was the
then-existing 2011 congressional map, itself a product of the
2001 map that Hinaman had also created. Civ. No. 21–1530
(ND Ala.), ECF Doc. 70–2, pp. 40, 93–94; see also 582
F. Supp. 3d, at 950. Hinaman worked to adjust the 2011
map in accordance with the redistricting guidelines set by
the legislature's Reapportionment Committee. Id., at 948–
950; 1 App. 275. Those guidelines prioritized population
equality, contiguity, compactness, and avoiding dilution of
minority voting strength. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1035–1036.
They also encouraged, as a secondary matter, avoiding in-
cumbent pairings, respecting communities of interest, mini-
mizing the number of counties in each district, and preserv-
ing cores of existing districts. Id., at 1036–1037.
16 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

The resulting map Hinaman drew largely resembled the
2011 map, again producing only one district in which black
voters constituted a majority of the voting age population.
Supp. App. 205–211. The Alabama Legislature enacted Hi-
naman's map under the name HB1. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 935,
950–951. Governor Ivey signed HB1 into law on Novem-
ber 4, 2021. Id., at 950.
C
Three groups of plaintiffs brought suit seeking to stop Ala-
bama's Secretary of State from conducting congressional
elections under HB1. The frst group was led by Dr. Marcus
Caster, a resident of Washington County, who challenged
HB1 as invalid under § 2. Id., at 934–935, 980. The second
group, led by Montgomery County resident Evan Milligan,
brought claims under § 2 and the Equal Protection Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Id., at 939–940, 966. Finally,
the Singleton plaintiffs, who had previously sued to enjoin
Page Proof Pending Publication
Alabama's 2011 congressional map, amended their complaint
to challenge HB1 as an impermissible racial gerrymander
under the Equal Protection Clause. Id., at 938–939.
A three-judge District Court was convened, comprised of
Circuit Judge Marcus and District Judges Manasco and
Moorer. The Singleton and Milligan actions were consoli-
dated before the three-judge Court for purposes of prelimi-
nary injunction proceedings, while Caster proceeded before
Judge Manasco on a parallel track. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 934–
935. A preliminary injunction hearing began on January 4,
2022, and concluded on January 12. Id., at 943. In that
time, the three-judge District Court received live testimony
from 17 witnesses, reviewed more than 1000 pages of briefng
and upwards of 350 exhibits, and considered arguments from
the 43 different lawyers who had appeared in the litigation.
Id., at 935–936. After reviewing that extensive record, the
Court concluded in a 227-page opinion that the question
whether HB1 likely violated § 2 was not “a close one.” It
did. Id., at 1026. The Court thus preliminarily enjoined
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 17

Opinion of the Court

Alabama from using HB1 in forthcoming elections. Id.,
at 936.2
Four days later, on January 28, Alabama moved in this
Court for a stay of the District Court's injunction. This
Court granted a stay and scheduled the cases for argument,
noting probable jurisdiction in Milligan and granting certio-
rari before judgment in Caster. 595 U. S. ––– (2022).

II
The District Court found that plaintiffs demonstrated a
reasonable likelihood of success on their claim that HB1 vio-
lates § 2. We affrm that determination.

A
For the past forty years, we have evaluated claims brought
under § 2 using the three-part framework developed in our
decision Thornburg v. Gingles, 478 U. S. 30 (1986). Gingles
Page Proof Pending Publication
concerned a challenge to North Carolina's multimember dis-
tricting scheme, which allegedly diluted the vote of its black
citizens. Id., at 34–36. The case presented the frst oppor-
tunity since the 1982 amendments to address how the new
§ 2 would operate.
Gingles began by describing what § 2 guards against.
“The essence of a § 2 claim,” the Court explained, “is that a
certain electoral law, practice, or structure interacts with so-
cial and historical conditions to cause an inequality in the
opportunities enjoyed by black and white voters.” Id., at
47. That occurs where an “electoral structure operates to
2
Judge Manasco, presiding in Caster, also preliminarily enjoined Ala-
bama from using HB1. Her opinion was based on the same evidentiary
record as was before the three-judge Court, and it adopted in full that
Court's “recitation of the evidence, legal analysis, fndings of fact and con-
clusions of law.” 1 App. to Emergency Application for Stay in No. 2:21–
cv–1536, p. 4; see also 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 942–943, and n. 4. Any reference
to the “District Court” in this opinion applies to the Caster Court as well
as to the three-judge Court.
18 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

minimize or cancel out” minority voters' “ability to elect
their preferred candidates.” Id., at 48. Such a risk is
greatest “where minority and majority voters consistently
prefer different candidates” and where minority voters are
submerged in a majority voting population that “regularly
defeat[s]” their choices. Ibid.
To succeed in proving a § 2 violation under Gingles, plain-
tiffs must satisfy three “preconditions.” Id., at 50. First,
the “minority group must be suffciently large and [geo-
graphically] compact to constitute a majority in a reasonably
confgured district.” Wisconsin Legislature v. Wisconsin
Elections Comm'n, 595 U. S. 398, 402 (2022) (per curiam)
(citing Gingles, 478 U. S., at 46–51). A district will be rea-
sonably confgured, our cases explain, if it comports with tra-
ditional districting criteria, such as being contiguous and
reasonably compact. See Alabama Legislative Black Cau-
cus v. Alabama, 575 U. S. 254, 272 (2015). “Second, the mi-
Page Proof Pending Publication
nority group must be able to show that it is politically cohe-
sive.” Gingles, 478 U. S., at 51. And third, “the minority
must be able to demonstrate that the white majority votes
suffciently as a bloc to enable it . . . to defeat the minority's
preferred candidate.” Ibid. Finally, a plaintiff who demon-
strates the three preconditions must also show, under the
“totality of circumstances,” that the political process is not
“equally open” to minority voters. Id., at 45–46; see also
id., at 36–38 (identifying several factors relevant to the total-
ity of circumstances inquiry, including “the extent of any his-
tory of offcial discrimination in the state . . . that touched
the right of the members of the minority group to register, to
vote, or otherwise to participate in the democratic process”).
Each Gingles precondition serves a different purpose.
The frst, focused on geographical compactness and numero-
sity, is “needed to establish that the minority has the poten-
tial to elect a representative of its own choice in some single-
member district.” Growe v. Emison, 507 U. S. 25, 40 (1993).
The second, concerning the political cohesiveness of the mi-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 19

Opinion of the Court

nority group, shows that a representative of its choice would
in fact be elected. See ibid. The third precondition, fo-
cused on racially polarized voting, “establish[es] that the
challenged districting thwarts a distinctive minority vote” at
least plausibly on account of race. Ibid. And fnally, the
totality of circumstances inquiry recognizes that application
of the Gingles factors is “peculiarly dependent upon the facts
of each case.” 478 U. S., at 79. Before courts can fnd a
violation of § 2, therefore, they must conduct “an intensely
local appraisal” of the electoral mechanism at issue, as well
as a “searching practical evaluation of the `past and present
reality.' ” Ibid.
Gingles has governed our Voting Rights Act jurisprudence
since it was decided 37 years ago. Congress has never dis-
turbed our understanding of § 2 as Gingles construed it.
And we have applied Gingles in one § 2 case after another,
to different kinds of electoral systems and to different juris-
dictions in States all over the country. See Voinovich v.
Page Proof Pending Publication
Quilter, 507 U. S. 146 (1993) (Ohio); Growe, 507 U. S., at 25
(Minnesota); Johnson v. De Grandy, 512 U. S. 997 (1994)
(Florida); Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S. 874 (1994) (Georgia);
Abrams v. Johnson, 521 U. S. 74 (1997) (Georgia); League of
United Latin American Citizens v. Perry, 548 U. S. 399, 423
(2006) (LULAC) (Texas); Bartlett v. Strickland, 556 U. S. 1
(2009) (plurality opinion) (North Carolina); Cooper v. Harris,
581 U. S. 285 (2017) (North Carolina); Abbott v. Perez, 585
U. S. ––– (2018) (Texas); Wisconsin Leg isla ture, 595
U. S. 398 (Wisconsin).
B
As noted, the District Court concluded that plaintiffs' § 2
claim was likely to succeed under Gingles. 582 F. Supp. 3d,
at 1026. Based on our review of the record, we agree.
With respect to the frst Gingles precondition, the District
Court correctly found that black voters could constitute a
majority in a second district that was “reasonably confg-
ured. ” 1 App. to Emergency Application for Stay in
20 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

No. 21–1086 etc., p. 253 (MSA). The plaintiffs adduced
eleven illustrative maps—that is, example districting maps
that Alabama could enact—each of which contained two
majority-black districts that comported with traditional dis-
tricting criteria. With respect to compactness, for example,
the District Court explained that the maps submitted by one
of plaintiffs' experts, Dr. Moon Duchin, “perform[ed] gener-
ally better on average than” did HB1. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at
1009. A map offered by another of plaintiffs' experts, Bill
Cooper, produced districts roughly as compact as the exist-
ing plan. Ibid. And none of plaintiffs' maps contained any
“tentacles, appendages, bizarre shapes, or any other obvious
irregularities that would make it diffcult to fnd” them suff-
ciently compact. Id., at 1011. Plaintiffs' maps also satisfed
other traditional districting criteria. They contained equal
populations, were contiguous, and respected existing politi-
cal subdivisions, such as counties, cities, and towns. Id., at
Page Proof Pending Publication
1011, 1016. Indeed, some of plaintiffs' proposed maps split
the same number of county lines as (or even fewer county
lines than) the State's map. Id., at 1011–1012. We agree
with the District Court, therefore, that plaintiffs' illustrative
maps “strongly suggest[ed] that Black voters in Alabama”
could constitute a majority in a second, reasonably confg-
ured, district. Id., at 1010.
The State nevertheless argues that plaintiffs' maps were
not reasonably confgured because they failed to keep to-
gether a traditional community of interest within Alabama.
See, e. g., id., at 1012. A “community of interest,” according
to Alabama's districting guidelines, is an “area with recog-
nized similarities of interests, including but not limited to
ethnic, racial, economic, tribal, social, geographic, or histori-
cal identities.” Ibid. Alabama argues that the Gulf Coast
region in the southwest of the State is such a community of
interest, and that plaintiffs' maps erred by separating it into
two different districts. Ibid.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 21

Opinion of the Court

We do not fnd the State's argument persuasive. Only two
witnesses testifed that the Gulf Coast was a community of
interest. Id., at 1015. The testimony provided by one of
those witnesses was “partial, selectively informed, and
poorly supported.” Ibid. The other witness, meanwhile,
justifed keeping the Gulf Coast together “simply” to pre-
serve “political advantage[ ]”: “You start splitting counties,”
he testifed, “and that county loses its infuence. That's why
I don't want Mobile County to be split.” Id., at 990, 1015.
The District Court understandably found this testimony in-
suffcient to sustain Alabama's “overdrawn argument that
there can be no legitimate reason to split” the Gulf Coast
region. Id., at 1015.
Even if the Gulf Coast did constitute a community of inter-
est, moreover, the District Court found that plaintiffs' maps
would still be reasonably confgured because they joined to-
gether a different community of interest called the Black
Page Proof Pending Publication
Belt. Id., at 1012–1014. Named for its fertile soil, the
Black Belt contains a high proportion of black voters, who
“share a rural geography, concentrated poverty, unequal ac-
cess to government services, . . . lack of adequate health-
care,” and a lineal connection to “the many enslaved people
brought there to work in the antebellum period.” Id., at
1012–1013; see also 1 App. 299–304. The District Court con-
cluded—correctly, under our precedent—that it did not have
to conduct a “beauty contest[ ]” between plaintiffs' maps and
the State's. There would be a split community of interest
in both. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1012 (quoting Bush v. Vera, 517
U. S. 952, 977–978 (1996) (plurality opinion)).
The State also makes a related argument based on “core
retention”—a term that refers to the proportion of districts
that remain when a State transitions from one districting
plan to another. See, e. g., Brief for Alabama 25, 61. Here,
by largely mirroring Alabama's 2011 districting plan, HB1
performs well on the core retention metric. Plaintiffs' illus-
22 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

trative plans, by contrast, naturally fare worse because they
change where the 2011 district lines were drawn. See, e. g.,
Supp. App. 164–173. But this Court has never held that a
State's adherence to a previously used districting plan can
defeat a § 2 claim. If that were the rule, a State could im-
munize from challenge a new racially discriminatory redis-
tricting plan simply by claiming that it resembled an old ra-
cially discriminatory plan. That is not the law: § 2 does not
permit a State to provide some voters “less opportunity . . .
to participate in the political process” just because the State
has done it before. 52 U. S. C. § 10301(b).
As to the second and third Gingles preconditions, the Dis-
trict Court determined that there was “no serious dispute
that Black voters are politically cohesive, nor that the chal-
lenged districts' white majority votes suffciently as a bloc to
usually defeat Black voters' preferred candidate.” 582
F. Supp. 3d, at 1016 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Page Proof Pending Publication
The Court noted that, “on average, Black voters supported
their candidates of choice with 92.3% of the vote” while
“white voters supported Black-preferred candidates with
15.4% of the vote.” Id., at 1017 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Plaintiffs' experts described the evidence of ra-
cially polarized voting in Alabama as “intens[e],” “very
strong,” and “very clear.” Ibid. Even Alabama's expert
conceded “that the candidates preferred by white voters in
the areas that he looked at regularly defeat the candidates
preferred by Black voters.” Id., at 1018.
Finally, the District Court concluded that plaintiffs had
carried their burden at the totality of circumstances stage.
The Court observed that elections in Alabama were racially
polarized; that “Black Alabamians enjoy virtually zero suc-
cess in statewide elections”; that political campaigns in Ala-
bama had been “characterized by overt or subtle racial ap-
peals”; and that “Alabama's extensive history of repugnant
racial and voting-related discrimination is undeniable and
well documented.” Id., at 1018–1024.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 23

Opinion of the Court

We see no reason to disturb the District Court's care-
ful factual fndings, which are subject to clear error review
and have gone unchallenged by Alabama in any event. See
Cooper, 581 U. S., at 309. Nor is there a basis to upset the
District Court's legal conclusions. The Court faithfully ap-
plied our precedents and correctly determined that, under
existing law, HB1 violated § 2.

III
The heart of these cases is not about the law as it exists.
It is about Alabama's attempt to remake our § 2 jurispru-
dence anew.
The centerpiece of the State's effort is what it calls the
“race-neutral benchmark.” The theory behind it is this:
Using modern computer technology, mapmakers can now
generate millions of possible districting maps for a given
State. The maps can be designed to comply with traditional
Page Proof Pending Publication
districting criteria but to not consider race. The mapmaker
can determine how many majority-minority districts exist in
each map, and can then calculate the median or average num-
ber of majority-minority districts in the entire multimillion-
map set. That number is called the race-neutral benchmark.
The State contends that this benchmark should serve as
the point of comparison in § 2 cases. The benchmark, the
State says, was derived from maps that were “race-blind”—
maps that cannot have “deni[ed] or abridge[d]” anyone's
right to vote “on account of race” because they never took
race into “account” in the frst place. 52 U. S. C. § 10301(a).
Courts in § 2 cases should therefore compare the number of
majority-minority districts in the State's plan to the bench-
mark. If those numbers are similar—if the State's map “re-
sembles” the benchmark in this way—then, Alabama argues,
the State's map also cannot have “deni[ed] or abridge[d]”
anyone's right to vote “on account of race.” Ibid.
Alabama contends that its approach should be adopted for
two reasons. First, the State argues that a race-neutral
24 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

benchmark best matches the text of the Voting Rights Act.
Section 2 requires that the political processes be “equally
open.” § 10301(b). What that means, the State asserts, is
that the State's map cannot impose “obstacles or burdens
that block or seriously hinder voting on account of race.”
Brief for Alabama 43. These obstacles do not exist, in the
State's view, where its map resembles a map that never took
race into “account.” Ibid. Second, Alabama argues that
the Gingles framework ends up requiring racial proportion-
ality in districting. According to the State, Gingles de-
mands that where “another majority-black district could be
drawn, it must be drawn.” Brief for Alabama 71 (emphasis
deleted). And that sort of proportionality, Alabama contin-
ues, is inconsistent with the compromise that Congress
struck, with the text of § 2, and with the Constitution's prohi-
bition on racial discrimination in voting.
To apply the race-neutral benchmark in practice, Alabama
would require § 2 plaintiffs to make at least three showings.
Page Proof Pending Publication
First, the illustrative plan that plaintiffs adduce for the frst
Gingles precondition cannot have been “based” on race.
Brief for Alabama 56. Second, plaintiffs must show at the
totality of circumstances stage that the State's enacted plan
diverges from the average plan that would be drawn without
taking race into account. And fnally, plaintiffs must ulti-
mately prove that any deviation between the State's plan and
a race-neutral plan is explainable “only” by race—not, for
example, by “the State's naturally occurring geography and
demography.” Id., at 46.
As we explain below, we fnd Alabama's new approach to
§ 2 compelling neither in theory nor in practice. We accord-
ingly decline to recast our § 2 case law as Alabama requests.

A
1
Section 2 prohibits States from imposing any “standard,
practice, or procedure . . . in a manner which results in a
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 25

Opinion of the Court

denial or abridgement of the right of any citizen . . . to vote
on account of race or color.” 52 U. S. C. § 10301(a). What
that means, § 2 goes on to explain, is that the political proc-
esses in the State must be “equally open,” such that minority
voters do not “have less opportunity than other members of
the electorate to participate in the political process and to
elect representatives of their choice.” § 10301(b).
We have understood the language of § 2 against the back-
ground of the hard-fought compromise that Congress struck.
To that end, we have reiterated that § 2 turns on the pres-
ence of discriminatory effects, not discriminatory intent.
See, e. g., Chisom v. Roemer, 501 U. S. 380, 403–404 (1991).
And we have explained that “[i]t is patently clear that Con-
gress has used the words `on account of race or color' in the
Act to mean `with respect to' race or color, and not to connote
any required purpose of racial discrimination.” Gingles, 478
U. S., at 71, n. 34 (plurality opinion) (some alterations omit-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ted). Individuals thus lack an equal opportunity to partici-
pate in the political process when a State's electoral struc-
ture operates in a manner that “minimize[s] or cancel[s] out
the[ir] voting strength.” Id., at 47. That occurs where an
individual is disabled from “enter[ing] into the political proc-
ess in a reliable and meaningful manner” “in the light of past
and present reality, political and otherwise.” White, 412
U. S., at 767, 770. A district is not equally open, in other
words, when minority voters face—unlike their majority
peers—bloc voting along racial lines, arising against the
backdrop of substantial racial discrimination within the
State, that renders a minority vote unequal to a vote by a
nonminority voter.
The State's reading of § 2, by contrast, runs headlong into
our precedent. Alabama asserts that a State's map does not
“abridge[ ]” a person's right to vote “on account of race” if
the map resembles a suffcient number of race-neutral alter-
natives. See Brief for Alabama 54–56. But our cases have
consistently focused, for purposes of litigation, on the specifc
26 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

illustrative maps that a plaintiff adduces. Deviation from
that map shows it is possible that the State's map has a dis-
parate effect on account of race. The remainder of the Gin-
gles test helps determine whether that possibility is reality
by looking to polarized voting preferences and the frequency
of racially discriminatory actions taken by the State, past
and present.
A State's liability under § 2, moreover, must be determined
“based on the totality of circumstances. ” 52 U. S. C.
§ 10301(b). Yet Alabama suggests there is only one “circum-
stance[ ]” that matters—how the State's map stacks up rela-
tive to the benchmark. That single-minded view of § 2 can-
not be squared with the VRA's demand that courts employ
a more refned approach. And we decline to adopt an inter-
pretation of § 2 that would “revise and reformulate the Gin-
gles threshold inquiry that has been the baseline of our § 2
jurisprudence” for nearly forty years. Bartlett, 556 U. S., at
Page Proof Pending Publication
16 (plurality opinion); see also Wisconsin Legislature, 595
U. S., at 405 (faulting lower court for “improperly reduc[ing]
Gingles' totality-of-circumstances analysis to a single fac-
tor”); De Grandy, 512 U. S., at 1018 (“An infexible rule would
run counter to the textual command of § 2, that the presence
or absence of a violation be assessed `based on the totality
of circumstances.' ”).3
2
Alabama also argues that the race-neutral benchmark is
required because our existing § 2 jurisprudence inevitably
demands racial proportionality in districting, contrary to the
last sentence of § 2(b). But properly applied, the Gingles
framework itself imposes meaningful constraints on propor-
tionality, as our decisions have frequently demonstrated.

3
The principal dissent complains that “what the District Court did here
is essentially no different from what many courts have done for decades
under this Court's superintendence.” Post, at 90–91 (opinion of Thomas,
J.). That is not such a bad defnition of stare decisis.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 27

Opinion of the Court

In Shaw v. Reno, for example, we considered the permissi-
bility of a second majority-minority district in North Caro-
lina, which at the time had 12 seats in the U. S. House of
Representatives and a 20% black voting age population.
509 U. S. 630, 633–634 (1993). The second majority-minority
district North Carolina drew was “160 miles long and, for
much of its length, no wider than the [interstate] corri-
dor.” Id., at 635. The district wound “in snakelike fashion
through tobacco country, fnancial centers, and manufactur-
ing areas until it gobble[d] in enough enclaves of black neigh-
borhoods.” Id., at 635–636. Indeed, the district was drawn
so imaginatively that one state legislator remarked: “[I]f you
drove down the interstate with both car doors open, you'd
kill most of the people in the district.” Id., at 636.
Though North Carolina believed the additional district
was required by § 2, we rejected that conclusion, fnding in-
stead that those challenging the map stated a claim of imper-
Page Proof Pending Publication
missible racial gerrymandering under the Equal Protection
Clause. Id., at 655, 658. In so holding, we relied on the fact
that the proposed district was not reasonably compact. Id.,
at 647. North Carolina had “concentrated a dispersed mi-
nority population in a single district by disregarding tradi-
tional districting principles such as compactness, contiguity,
and respect for political subdivisions.” Ibid. (emphasis
added). And “[a] reapportionment plan that includes in one
district individuals who belong to the same race, but who are
otherwise widely separated by geographical and political
boundaries,” we said, raised serious constitutional concerns.
Ibid. (emphasis added).
The same theme emerged in our 1995 decision Miller v.
Johnson, where we upheld a district court's fnding that one
of Georgia's ten congressional districts was the product of an
impermissible racial gerrymander. 515 U. S. 900, 906, 910–
911. At the time, Georgia's black voting age population was
27%, but there was only one majority-minority district. Id.,
at 906. To comply with the VRA, Georgia thought it neces-
28 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

sary to create two more majority-minority districts—achiev-
ing proportionality. Id., at 920–921. But like North Caro-
lina in Shaw, Georgia could not create the districts without
fouting traditional criteria. One district “centered around
four discrete, widely spaced urban centers that ha[d] abso-
lutely nothing to do with each other, and stretch[ed] the dis-
trict hundreds of miles across rural counties and narrow
swamp corridors.” 515 U. S., at 908. “Geographically,” we
said of the map, “it is a monstrosity.” Id., at 909.
In Bush v. Vera, a plurality of the Court again explained
how traditional districting criteria limited any tendency of
the VRA to compel proportionality. The case concerned
Texas's creation of three additional majority-minority dis-
tricts. 517 U. S., at 957. Though the districts brought the
State closer to proportional representation, we nevertheless
held that they constituted racial gerrymanders in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. That was because the dis-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tricts had “no integrity in terms of traditional, neutral redis-
tricting criteria.” Id., at 960. One of the majority-black
districts consisted “of narrow and bizarrely shaped tenta-
cles.” Id., at 965. The proposed majority-Hispanic district
resembled “a sacred Mayan bird” with “[s]pindly legs reach-
[ing] south” and a “plumed head ris[ing] northward.” Id.,
at 974.
The point of all this is a simple one. Forcing proportional
representation is unlawful and inconsistent with this Court's
approach to implementing § 2. The numbers bear the point
out well. At the congressional level, the fraction of districts
in which black-preferred candidates are likely to win “is cur-
rently below the Black share of the eligible voter population
in every state but three.” Brief for Professors Jowei Chen
et al. as Amici Curiae 3 (Chen Brief). Only one State in
the country, meanwhile, “has attained a proportional share”
of districts in which Hispanic-preferred candidates are likely
to prevail. Id., at 3–4. That is because as residential
segregation decreases—as it has “sharply” done since the
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 29

Opinion of the Court

1970s—satisfying traditional districting criteria such as
the compactness requirement “becomes more difficult.”
T. Crum, Reconstructing Racially Polarized Voting, 70 Duke
L. J. 261, 279, and n. 105 (2020).
Indeed, as amici supporting the appellees emphasize, § 2
litigation in recent years has rarely been successful for just
that reason. See Chen Brief 3–4. Since 2010, plaintiffs na-
tionwide have apparently succeeded in fewer than ten § 2
suits. Id., at 7. And “the only state legislative or congres-
sional districts that were redrawn because of successful Sec-
tion 2 challenges were a handful of state house districts near
Milwaukee and Houston.” Id., at 7–8. By contrast, “[n]u-
merous lower courts” have upheld districting maps “where,
due to minority populations' geographic diffusion, plaintiffs
couldn't design an additional majority-minority district” or
satisfy the compactness requirement. Id., at 15–16 (collect-
ing cases). The same has been true of recent litigation in
this Court. See Abbott, 585 U. S., at ––– – ––– (fnding a
Page Proof Pending Publication
Texas district did not violate § 2 because “the geography and
demographics of south and west Texas do not permit the
creation of any more than the seven Latino . . . districts that
exist under the current plan”).4
Reapportionment, we have repeatedly observed, “is pri-
marily the duty and responsibility of the State[s],” not the
federal courts. Id., at –––. Properly applied, the Gingles
factors help ensure that remains the case. As respondents

4
Despite this all, the dissent argues that courts have apparently been
“methodically carving the country into racially designated electoral dis-
tricts” for decades. Post, at 91 (opinion of Thomas, J.). And that, the
dissent inveighs, “should inspire us to repentance.” Ibid. But propor-
tional representation of minority voters is absent from nearly every corner
of this country despite § 2 being in effect for over 40 years. And in case
after case, we have rejected districting plans that would bring States
closer to proportionality when those plans violate traditional districting
criteria. See supra, at 27–29. It seems it is the dissent that is “quixoti-
cally joust[ing] with an imaginary adversary.” Post, at 90 (opinion of
Thomas, J.).
30 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of Roberts, C. J.

themselves emphasize, § 2 “never require[s] adoption of
districts that violate traditional redistricting principles.”
Brief for Respondents in No. 21–1087, p. 3. Its exacting re-
quirements, instead, limit judicial intervention to “those in-
stances of intensive racial politics” where the “excessive role
[of race] in the electoral process . . . den[ies] minority voters
equal opportunity to participate.” Senate Report 33–34.

B
Although we are content to reject Alabama's invitation to
change existing law on the ground that the State misunder-
stands § 2 and our decisions implementing it, we also address
how the race-neutral benchmark would operate in practice.
Alabama's approach fares poorly on that score, which further
counsels against our adopting it.

1
Page
The frstProof
change to Pending
existing law thatPublication
Alabama would re-
quire is prohibiting the illustrative maps that plaintiffs sub-
mit to satisfy the frst Gingles precondition from being
“based” on race. Brief for Alabama 56. Although Alabama
is not entirely clear whether, under its view, plaintiffs' illus-
trative plans must not take race into account at all or
whether they must just not “prioritize” race, ibid., we see no
reason to impose such a new rule.
When it comes to considering race in the context of dis-
tricting, we have made clear that there is a difference “be-
tween being aware of racial considerations and being moti-
vated by them.” Miller, 515 U. S., at 916; see also North
Carolina v. Covington, 585 U. S. –––, ––– (2018) (per cu-
riam). The former is permissible; the latter is usually not.
That is because “[r]edistricting legislatures will . . . almost
always be aware of racial demographics,” Miller, 515 U. S.,
at 916, but such “race consciousness does not lead inevitably
to impermissible race discrimination,” Shaw, 509 U. S., at
646. Section 2 itself “demands consideration of race.” Ab-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 31

Opinion of Roberts, C. J.

bott, 585 U. S., at –––. The question whether additional
majority-minority districts can be drawn, after all, involves
a “quintessentially race-conscious calculus.” De Grandy,
512 U. S., at 1020.
At the same time, however, race may not be “the predomi-
nant factor in drawing district lines unless [there is] a com-
pelling reason.” Cooper, 581 U. S., at 291. Race predomi-
nates in the drawing of district lines, our cases explain, when
“race-neutral considerations [come] into play only after the
race-based decision had been made.” Bethune-Hill v. Vir-
ginia State Bd. of Elections, 580 U. S. 178, 189 (2017) (inter-
nal quotation marks omitted). That may occur where “race
for its own sake is the overriding reason for choosing one
map over others.” Id., at 190.
While the line between racial predominance and racial con-
sciousness can be diffcult to discern, see Miller, 515 U. S.,
at 916, it was not breached here. The Caster plaintiffs relied
Page Proof Pending Publication
on illustrative maps produced by expert Bill Cooper. See 2
App. 591–592. Cooper testifed that while it was necessary
for him to consider race, he also took several other factors
into account, such as compactness, contiguity, and population
equality. Ibid. Cooper testifed that he gave all these
factors “equal weighting.” Id., at 594. And when asked
squarely whether race predominated in his development of
the illustrative plans, Cooper responded: “No. It was a con-
sideration. This is a Section 2 lawsuit, after all. But it did
not predominate or dominate.” Id., at 595.
The District Court agreed. It found “Cooper's testimony
highly credible” and commended Cooper for “work[ing] hard
to give `equal weight[ ]' to all traditional redistricting crite-
ria.” 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1005–1006; see also id., at 978–979.
The court also explained that Alabama's evidence of racial
predominance in Cooper's maps was exceedingly thin. Ala-
bama's expert, Thomas Bryan, “testifed that he never re-
viewed the exhibits to Mr. Cooper's report” and “that he
never reviewed” one of the illustrative plans that Cooper
32 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of Roberts, C. J.

submitted. Id., at 1006. Bryan further testifed that he
could offer no “conclusions or opinions as to the apparent
basis of any individual line drawing decisions in Cooper's il-
lustrative plans.” 2 App. 740. By his own admission, Bry-
an's analysis of any race predominance in Cooper's maps
“was pretty light.” Id., at 739. The District Court did not
err in fnding that race did not predominate in Cooper's maps
in light of the evidence before it.5
The dissent contends that race nevertheless predominated
in both Cooper's and Duchin's maps because they were
designed to hit “ `express racial target[s]' ”—namely, two
“50%-plus majority-black districts.” Post, at 59 (opinion of
Thomas, J.) (quoting Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 192). This
argument fails in multiple ways. First, the dissent's reli-
ance on Bethune-Hill is mistaken. In that case, this Court
was unwilling to conclude that a State's maps were produced
in a racially predominant manner. Instead, we remanded
for the lower court to conduct the predominance analysis it-
Page Proof Pending Publication
self, explaining that “the use of an express racial target” was
just one factor among others that the court would have to
consider as part of “[a] holistic analysis.” Id., at 192. Jus-
5
The dissent claims that Cooper “treated `the minority population in
and of itself ' as the paramount community of interest in his plans.” Post,
at 58 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (quoting 2 App. 601). But Cooper testifed
that he was “aware that the minority population in and of itself can be a
community of interest.” Id., at 601 (emphasis added). Cooper then ex-
plained that the relevant community of interest here—the Black Belt—
was a “historical feature” of the State, not a demographic one. Ibid.
(emphasis added). The Black Belt, he emphasized, was defned by its
“historical boundaries”—namely, the group of “rural counties plus Mont-
gomery County in the central part of the state.” Ibid. The District
Court treated the Black Belt as a community of interest for the same
reason.
The dissent also protests that Cooper's “plans prioritized race over neu-
tral districting criteria.” Post, at 58 (opinion of Thomas, J.). But as the
District Court found, and as Alabama does not contest, Cooper's maps
satisfed other traditional criteria, such as compactness, contiguity, equal
populations, and respect for political subdivisions.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 33

Opinion of the Court

tice Thomas dissented in relevant part, contending that be-
cause “the legislature sought to achieve a [black voting-age
population] of at least 55%,” race necessarily predominated
in its decisionmaking. Id., at 198 (opinion concurring in
judgment part and dissenting in part). But the Court did
not join in that view, and Justice Thomas again dissents
along the same lines today.
The second faw in the dissent's proposed approach is its
inescapable consequence: Gingles must be overruled. Ac-
cording to the dissent, racial predominance plagues every
single illustrative map ever adduced at the frst step of Gin-
gles. For all those maps were created with an express tar-
get in mind—they were created to show, as our cases require,
that an additional majority-minority district could be drawn.
That is the whole point of the enterprise. The upshot of the
approach the dissent urges is not to change how Gingles is
applied, but to reject its framework outright.
The contention that mapmakers must be entirely “blind”
Page Proof Pending Publication
to race has no footing in our § 2 case law. The line that we
have long drawn is between consciousness and predomi-
nance. Plaintiffs adduced at least one illustrative map that
comported with our precedents. They were required to do
no more to satisfy the frst step of Gingles.

2
The next condition Alabama would graft onto § 2 is a re-
quirement that plaintiffs demonstrate, at the totality of cir-
cumstances stage, that the State's enacted plan contains
fewer majority-minority districts than the race-neutral
benchmark. Brief for Alabama 43. If it does not, then § 2
should drop out of the picture. Id., at 44.
Alabama argues that is what should have happened here.
It notes that one of plaintiffs' experts, Dr. Duchin, used an
algorithm to create “2 million districting plans for Alabama
. . . without taking race into account in any way in the gener-
ation process.” 2 App. 710. Of these two million “race-
34 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

blind” plans, none contained two majority-black districts
while many plans did not contain any. Ibid. Alabama also
points to a “race-neutral” computer simulation conducted by
another one of plaintiffs' experts, Dr. Kosuke Imai, which
produced 30,000 potential maps. Brief for Alabama 55. As
with Dr. Duchin's maps, none of the maps that Dr. Imai cre-
ated contained two majority-black districts. See 2 App.
571–572. Alabama thus contends that because HB1 suff-
ciently “resembles” the “race-neutral” maps created by Dr.
Duchin and Dr. Imai—all of the maps lack two majority-black
districts—HB1 does not violate § 2. Brief for Alabama 54.
Alabama's reliance on the maps created by Dr. Duchin and
Dr. Imai is misplaced. For one, neither Duchin's nor Imai's
maps accurately represented the districting process in Ala-
bama. Dr. Duchin's maps were based on old census data—
from 2010 instead of 2020—and ignored certain traditional
districting criteria, such as keeping together communities
of interest, political subdivisions, or municipalities.6 And
Page Proof Pending Publication
Dr. Imai's 30,000 maps failed to incorporate Alabama's own
districting guidelines, including keeping together communi-
ties of interest and preserving municipal boundaries. See
Supp. App. 58–59.7
6
Dr. Duchin created her two million map sample as part of an academic
article that she helped author, not for her work on this case, and the article
was neither entered into evidence below nor made part of the record here.
See 2 App. 710; see also M. Duchin & D. Spencer, Models, Race, and the
Law, 130 Yale L. J. Forum 744, 763–764 (2021) (Duchin & Spencer).
7
The principal dissent decrees that Dr. Duchin's and Dr. Imai's maps
are “surely probative,” forgiving the former's use of stale census data as
well as both mapmakers' collective failure to incorporate many traditional
districting guidelines. Post, at 66–67, and n. 14 (opinion of Thomas, J.);
see also post, at 59, n. 9, 60. In doing so, that dissent ignores Dr. Duchin's
testimony that—when using the correct census data—the “randomized al-
gorithms” she employed “found plans with two majority-black districts
in literally thousands of different ways.” MSA 316–317. The principal
dissent and the dissent by Justice Alito also ignore Duchin's testimony
that “it is certainly possible” to draw the illustrative maps she produced
in a race-blind manner. 2 App. 713. In that way, even the race-blind
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 35

Opinion of the Court

But even if the maps created by Dr. Duchin and Dr. Imai
were adequate comparators, we could not adopt the map-
comparison test that Alabama proposes. The test is fawed
in its fundamentals. Districting involves myriad considera-
tions—compactness, contiguity, political subdivisions, natu-
ral geographic boundaries, county lines, pairing of incum-
bents, communities of interest, and population equality. See
Miller, 515 U. S., at 916. Yet “[q]uantifying, measuring,
prioritizing, and reconciling these criteria” requires map
drawers to “make diffcult, contestable choices.” Brief for
Computational Redistricting Experts as Amici Curiae 8
(Redistricting Brief). And “[i]t is easy to imagine how dif-
ferent criteria could move the median map toward different
. . . distributions,” meaning that “the same map could be
[lawful] or not depending solely on what the mapmakers said
they set out to do.” Rucho v. Common Cause, 588 U. S.
–––, ––– – ––– (2019). For example, “the scientifc literature
contains dozens of competing metrics” on the issue of com-
Page Proof Pending Publication
pactness. Redistricting Brief 8. Which one of these met-
rics should be used? What happens when the maps they
produce yield different benchmark results? How are courts
to decide?
Alabama does not say; it offers no rule or standard for
determining which of these choices are better than others.
Nothing in § 2 provides an answer either. In 1982, the com-
puterized mapmaking software that Alabama contends plain-

standard that the dissents urge would be satisfed here. See post, at 64–
65 (opinion of Thomas, J.); post, at 100 (opinion of Alito, J.). So too could
that standard be satisfed in every § 2 case; after all, as Duchin explained,
any map produced in a deliberately race-predominant manner would nec-
essarily emerge at some point in a random, race-neutral process. 2 App.
713. And although Justice Alito voices support for an “old-school ap-
proach” to § 2, even that approach cannot be squared with his understand-
ing of Gingles. Post, at 99–100. The very reason a plaintiff adduces a
map at the frst step of Gingles is precisely because of its racial composi-
tion—that is, because it creates an additional majority-minority district
that does not then exist.
36 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

tiffs must use to demonstrate an (unspecifed) level of devia-
tion did not even exist. See, e. g., J. Chen & N. Steph-
anopoulos, The Race-Blind Future of Voting Rights, 130 Yale
L. J. 862, 881–882 (2021) (Chen & Stephanopoulos). And nei-
ther the text of § 2 nor the fraught debate that produced it
suggests that “equal access” to the fundamental right of vot-
ing turns on computer simulations that are technically com-
plicated, expensive to produce, and available to “[o]nly a
small cadre of university researchers [that] have the re-
sources and expertise to run” them. Brief for United States
as Amicus Curiae 28 (citing Chen & Stephanopoulos 882–
884).8
One final point bears mentioning. Throughout these
cases, Alabama has repeatedly emphasized that HB1 cannot
have violated § 2 because none of plaintiffs' two million odd
maps contained more than one majority-minority district.
See, e. g., Brief for Alabama 1, 23, 30, 31, 54–56, 70, 79. The
point is that two million is a very big number and that sheer
Page Proof Pending Publication
volume matters. But as elsewhere, Alabama misconceives
the math project that it expects courts to oversee. A brief
submitted by three computational redistricting experts ex-
plains that the number of possible districting maps in Ala-
bama is at least in the “trillion trillions.” Redistricting
Brief 6, n. 7. Another publication reports that the number
of potential maps may be orders of magnitude higher: “the
universe of all possible connected, population-balanced dis-
tricting plans that satisfy the state's requirements,” it ex-
plains, “is likely in the range of googols.” Duchin & Spencer
768. Two million maps, in other words, is not many maps
at all. And Alabama's insistent reliance on that number,

8
None of this is to suggest that algorithmic mapmaking is categorically
irrelevant in voting rights cases. Instead, we note only that, in light of
the diffculties discussed above, courts should exercise caution before
treating results produced by algorithms as all but dispositive of a § 2 claim.
And in evaluating algorithmic evidence more generally in this context,
courts should be attentive to the concerns we have discussed.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 37

Opinion of the Court

however powerful it may sound in the abstract, is thus close
to irrelevant in practice. What would the next million maps
show? The next billion? The frst trillion of the trillion
trillions? Answerless questions all. See, e. g., Redistrict-
ing Brief 2 (“[I]t is computationally intractable, and thus ef-
fectively impossible, to generate a complete enumeration of
all potential districting plans. [Even] algorithms that at-
tempt to create a manageable sample of that astronomically
large universe do not consistently identify an average or me-
dian map.”); Duchin & Spencer 768 (“[A] comprehensive sur-
vey of [all districting plans within a State] is impossible.”).
Section 2 cannot require courts to judge a contest of com-
puters when there is no reliable way to determine who wins,
or even where the fnish line is.

3
Alabama's fnal contention with respect to the race-
Page Proof Pending Publication
neutral benchmark is that it requires plaintiffs to demon-
strate that any deviations between the State's enacted plan
and race-neutral alternatives “can be explained only by ra-
cial discrimination.” Brief for Alabama 44 (emphasis added).
We again fnd little merit in Alabama's proposal. As we
have already explained, our precedents and the legislative
compromise struck in the 1982 amendments clearly rejected
treating discriminatory intent as a requirement for liability
under § 2. See, e. g., Chisom, 501 U. S., at 403–404; Shaw,
509 U. S., at 641; Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S.
471, 481–482 (1997). Yet Alabama's proposal is even more
demanding than the intent test Congress jettisoned. Dem-
onstrating discriminatory intent, we have long held, “does
not require a plaintiff to prove that the challenged action
rested solely on racially discriminatory purpose[ ].” Arling-
ton Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp.,
429 U. S. 252, 265 (1977) (emphasis added); see also Reno, 520
U. S., at 488. Alabama's proposed approach stands in sharp
contrast to all this, injecting into the effects test of § 2 an
38 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

evidentiary standard that even our purposeful discrimination
cases eschew.
C
Alabama fnally asserts that the Court should outright
stop applying § 2 in cases like these because the text of § 2
does not apply to single-member redistricting and because
§ 2 is unconstitutional as the District Court applied it here.
We disagree on both counts.
Alabama frst argues that § 2 does not apply to single-
member redistricting. Echoing Justice Thomas's concur-
rence in Holder v. Hall, Alabama reads § 2's reference to
“standard, practice, or procedure” to mean only the “methods
for conducting a part of the voting process that might . . . be
used to interfere with a citizen's ability to cast his vote.”
512 U. S., at 917–918 (opinion concurring in judgment). Ex-
amples of covered activities would include “registration re-
quirements, . . . the locations of polling places, the times polls
Page Proof Pending Publication
are open, the use of paper ballots as opposed to voting ma-
chines, and other similar aspects of the voting process.” Id.,
at 922. But not “a single-member districting system or the
selection of one set of districting lines over another.” Id.,
at 923.
This understanding of § 2 cannot be reconciled with our
precedent. As recounted above, we have applied § 2 to
States' districting maps in an unbroken line of decisions
stretching four decades. See supra, at 19; see also Brno-
vich, 594 U. S., at –––, n. 5 (collecting cases). In doing so,
we have unanimously held that § 2 and Gingles “[c]ertainly
. . . apply” to claims challenging single-member districts.
Growe, 507 U. S., at 40. And we have even invalidated por-
tions of a State's single-district map under § 2. See LULAC,
548 U. S., at 427–429.9 Alabama's approach would require
9
The dissent suggests that Growe does not support the proposition that
§ 2 applies to single-member redistricting. Post, at 48–49 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). The Court has understood Growe much differently. See,
e. g., Abrams v. Johnson, 521 U. S. 74, 90 (1997) (“Our decision in [Gingles]
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 39

Opinion of the Court

“abandoning” this precedent, “overruling the interpretation
of § 2” as set out in nearly a dozen of our cases. Holder, 512
U. S., at 944 (opinion of Thomas, J.).
We decline to take that step. Congress is undoubtedly
aware of our construing § 2 to apply to districting challenges.
It can change that if it likes. But until and unless it does,
statutory stare decisis counsels our staying the course. See,
e. g., Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC, 576 U. S. 446,
456 (2015).10
The statutory text in any event supports the conclusion
that § 2 applies to single-member districts. Alabama's own
proffered defnition of a “procedure is the manner or method
of proceeding in a process or course of action.” Brief for
Alabama 51 (internal quotation marks omitted). But the
manner of proceeding in the act of voting entails determining
in which districts voters will vote. The fact that the term
“procedure” is preceded by the phrase “qualifcation or pre-
requisite to voting,” 52 U. S. C. § 10301(a), does not change
Page Proof Pending Publication
its meaning. It is hard to imagine many more fundamental
“prerequisites” to voting than determining where to cast
your ballot or who you are eligible to vote for. Perhaps for

set out the basic framework for establishing a vote dilution claim against
at-large, multimember districts; we have since extended the framework to
single-member districts.” (citing Growe, 507 U. S., at 40–41)); Johnson v.
De Grandy, 512 U. S. 997, 1006 (1994) (“In Growe, we held that a claim of
vote dilution in a single-member district requires proof meeting the same
three threshold conditions for a dilution challenge to a multimember dis-
trict . . . .”); Bartlett v. Strickland, 556 U. S. 1, 11 (2009) (plurality opinion)
(“The Court later held that the three Gingles requirements apply equally
in § 2 cases involving single-member districts . . . .” (citing Growe, 507
U. S., at 40–41)).
10
Justice Alito argues that “[t]he Gingles framework should be [re]in-
terpreted” in light of changing methods in statutory interpretation. Post,
at 104 (dissenting opinion). But as we have explained, Gingles effectuates
the delicate legislative bargain that § 2 embodies. And statutory stare
decisis counsels strongly in favor of not “undo[ing] . . . the compromise
that was reached between the House and Senate when § 2 was amended
in 1982.” Brnovich, 594 U. S., at –––.
40 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Opinion of the Court

that reason, even Alabama does not bear the courage of its
conviction on this point. It refuses to argue that § 2 is inap-
plicable to multimember districting, though its textual argu-
ments apply with equal force in that context.
The dissent, by contrast, goes where even Alabama does
not dare, arguing that § 2 is wholly inapplicable to districting
because it “focuses on ballot access and counting” only.
Post, at 46 (opinion of Thomas, J.). But the statutory text
upon which the dissent relies supports the exact opposite
conclusion. The relevant section provides that “[t]he terms
`vote' or `voting' shall include all action necessary to make a
vote effective.” Post, at 47 (quoting 52 U. S. C. § 10310(c)(1);
emphasis added). Those actions “includ[e], but [are] not lim-
ited to, . . . action[s] required by law prerequisite to voting,
casting a ballot, and having such ballot counted properly
and included in the appropriate totals of votes cast. ”
§ 10310(c)(1). It would be anomalous to read the broad lan-
Page Proof Pending Publication
guage of the statute—“all action necessary,” “including but
not limited to”—to have the crabbed reach that Justice
Thomas posits. And we have already discussed why deter-
mining where to cast a ballot constitutes a “prerequisite” to
voting, as the statute requires.
The dissent also contends that “applying § 2 to districting
rests on systematic neglect of . . . the ballot-access focus of
the 1960s' voting-rights struggles.” Post, at 47 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). But history did not stop in 1960. As we have
explained, Congress adopted the amended § 2 in response to
the 1980 decision City of Mobile, a case about districting.
And—as the dissent itself acknowledges—“Congress drew
§ 2(b)'s current operative language” from the 1973 decision
White v. Regester, post, at 48, n. 3 (opinion of Thomas, J.), a
case that was also about districting (in fact, a case that inval-
idated two multimember districts in Texas and ordered them
redrawn into single-member districts, 412 U. S., at 765).
This was not lost on anyone when § 2 was amended. Indeed,
it was the precise reason that the contentious debates over
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 41

Opinion of the Court

proportionality raged—debates that would have made little
sense if § 2 covered only poll taxes and the like, as the dis-
sent contends.
We also reject Alabama's argument that § 2 as applied to
redistricting is unconstitutional under the Fifteenth Amend-
ment. According to Alabama, that Amendment permits
Congress to legislate against only purposeful discrimination
by States. See Brief for Alabama 73. But we held over 40
years ago “that, even if § 1 of the [Fifteenth] Amendment
prohibits only purposeful discrimination, the prior decisions
of this Court foreclose any argument that Congress may not,
pursuant to § 2 [of the Fifteenth Amendment], outlaw voting
practices that are discriminatory in effect.” City of Rome
v. United States, 446 U. S. 156, 173 (1980). The VRA's “ban
on electoral changes that are discriminatory in effect,” we
emphasized, “is an appropriate method of promoting the pur-
poses of the Fifteenth Amendment.” Id., at 177. As City
Page Proof Pending Publication
of Rome recognized, we had reached the very same conclu-
sion in South Carolina v. Katzenbach, a decision issued right
after the VRA was frst enacted. 383 U. S., at 308–309, 329–
337; see also Brnovich, 594 U. S., at –––.
Alabama further argues that, even if the Fif teenth
Amendment authorizes the effects test of § 2, that Amend-
ment does not authorize race-based redistricting as a remedy
for § 2 violations. But for the last four decades, this Court
and the lower federal courts have repeatedly applied the ef-
fects test of § 2 as interpreted in Gingles and, under certain
circumstances, have authorized race-based redistricting as a
remedy for state districting maps that violate § 2. See, e. g.,
supra, at 19; cf. Mississippi Republican Executive Commit-
tee v. Brooks, 469 U. S. 1002 (1984). In light of that prece-
dent, including City of Rome, we are not persuaded by Ala-
bama's arguments that § 2 as interpreted in Gingles exceeds
the remedial authority of Congress.
The concern that § 2 may impermissibly elevate race in the
allocation of political power within the States is, of course,
42 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part

not new. See, e. g., Shaw, 509 U. S., at 657 (“Racial gerry-
mandering, even for remedial purposes, may balkanize us
into competing racial factions; it threatens to carry us fur-
ther from the goal of a political system in which race no
longer matters.”). Our opinion today does not diminish or
disregard these concerns. It simply holds that a faithful ap-
plication of our precedents and a fair reading of the record
before us do not bear them out here.

* * *
The judgments of the District Court for the Northern Dis-
trict of Alabama in the Caster case, and of the three-judge
District Court in the Milligan case, are affrmed.

It is so ordered.

Justice Kavanaugh, concurring in all but Part III–B–1.
Page Proof
I agree with Pending
the Court that Alabama'sPublication
redistricting plan
violates § 2 of the Voting Rights Act as interpreted in Thorn-
burg v. Gingles, 478 U. S. 30 (1986). I write separately to
emphasize four points.
First, the upshot of Alabama's argument is that the Court
should overrule Gingles. But the stare decisis standard for
this Court to overrule a statutory precedent, as distinct from
a constitutional precedent, is comparatively strict. Unlike
with constitutional precedents, Congress and the President
may enact new legislation to alter statutory precedents such
as Gingles. In the past 37 years, however, Congress and
the President have not disturbed Gingles, even as they have
made other changes to the Voting Rights Act. Although
statutory stare decisis is not absolute, “the Court has ordi-
narily left the updating or correction of erroneous statutory
precedents to the legislative process.” Ramos v. Louisi-
ana, 590 U. S. –––, ––– (2020) (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in
part); see also, e. g., Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC,
576 U. S. 446, 456 (2015); Patterson v. McLean Credit Union,
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 43

Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part

491 U. S. 164, 172–173 (1989); Flood v. Kuhn, 407 U. S. 258,
283–284 (1972); Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S.
393, 406 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting).1
Second, Alabama contends that Gingles inevitably re-
quires a proportional number of majority-minority districts,
which in turn contravenes the proportionality disclaimer in
§ 2(b) of the Voting Rights Act. 52 U. S. C. § 10301(b). But
Alabama's premise is wrong. As the Court's precedents
make clear, Gingles does not mandate a proportional number
of majority-minority districts. Gingles requires the cre-
ation of a majority-minority district only when, among other
things, (i) a State's redistricting map cracks or packs a large
and “geographically compact” minority population and (ii) a
plaintiff's proposed alternative map and proposed majority-
minority district are “reasonably confgured”—namely, by
respecting compactness principles and other traditional dis-
tricting criteria such as county, city, and town lines. See,
e. g., Cooper v. Harris, 581 U. S. 285, 301–302 (2017); Voino-
Page Proof Pending Publication
vich v. Quilter, 507 U. S. 146, 153–154 (1993); ante, at 17–19,
26–30.
If Gingles demanded a proportional number of majority-
minority districts, States would be forced to group togeth-
er geographically dispersed minority voters into unusually
shaped districts, without concern for traditional districting
criteria such as county, city, and town lines. But Gingles
and this Court's later decisions have fatly rejected that ap-
proach. See, e. g., Abbott v. Perez, 585 U. S. –––, ––– – –––
(2018); Bush v. Vera, 517 U. S. 952, 979 (1996) (plurality opin-
1
Unlike ordinary statutory precedents, the “Court's precedents apply-
ing common-law statutes and pronouncing the Court's own interpretive
methods and principles typically do not fall within that category of strin-
gent statutory stare decisis.” Ramos, 590 U. S., at –––, n. 2 (opinion of
Kavanaugh, J.); see also, e. g., Kisor v. Wilkie, 588 U. S. –––, ––– – –––
(2019) (Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment); id., at ––– – ––– (Kava-
naugh, J., concurring in judgment); Leegin Creative Leather Products,
Inc. v. PSKS, Inc., 551 U. S. 877, 899–907 (2007); Arbaugh v. Y & H Corp.,
546 U. S. 500, 510–516 (2006).
44 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part

ion); Gingles, 478 U. S., at 50; see also Miller v. Johnson, 515
U. S. 900, 917–920 (1995); Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630, 644–
649 (1993); ante, at 26–30.2
Third, Alabama argues that courts should rely on race-
blind computer simulations of redistricting maps to assess
whether a State's plan abridges the right to vote on account
of race. It is true that computer simulations might help de-
tect the presence or absence of intentional discrimination.
For example, if all of the computer simulations generated
only one majority-minority district, it might be diffcult to
say that a State had intentionally discriminated on the basis
of race by failing to draw a second majority-minority district.
But as this Court has long recognized—and as all Mem-
bers of this Court today agree—the text of § 2 establishes an
effects test, not an intent test. See ante, at 25; post, at 51
(Thomas, J., dissenting); post, at 109 (Alito, J., dissenting).
And the effects test, as applied by Gingles to redistricting,
requires in certain circumstances that courts account for the
Page Proof Pending Publication
race of voters so as to prevent the cracking or packing—
whether intentional or not—of large and geographically com-
pact minority populations. See Abbott, 585 U. S., at –––;
Johnson v. De Grandy, 512 U. S. 997, 1006–1007, 1020 (1994);
Voinovich, 507 U. S., at 153–154; see generally Brnovich v.
Democratic National Committee, 594 U. S. –––, ––– (2021)
(“§ 2 does not demand proof of discriminatory purpose”);
Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S. 471, 482 (1997)
(Congress “clearly expressed its desire that § 2 not have an
intent component”); Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S. 874, 923–924
(1994) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (§ 2 adopts a

2
To ensure that Gingles does not improperly morph into a proportional-
ity mandate, courts must rigorously apply the “geographically compact”
and “reasonably confgured” requirements. See ante, at 30 (§ 2 require-
ments under Gingles are “exacting”). In this case, for example, it is im-
portant that at least some of the plaintiffs' proposed alternative maps re-
spect county lines at least as well as Alabama's redistricting plan. See
ante, at 20.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 45

Thomas, J., dissenting

“ `results' test, rather than an `intent' test”); Chisom v. Roe-
mer, 501 U. S. 380, 394, 404 (1991) (“proof of intent is no
longer required to prove a § 2 violation” as “Congress made
clear that a violation of § 2 could be established by proof of
discriminatory results alone”); Gingles, 478 U. S., at 71, n. 34
(plurality opinion) (§ 2 does not require “ `purpose of racial
discrimination' ”).
Fourth, Alabama asserts that § 2, as construed by Gingles
to require race-based redistricting in certain circumstances,
exceeds Congress's remedial or preventive authority under
the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. As the Court
explains, the constitutional argument presented by Alabama
is not persuasive in light of the Court's precedents. See
ante, at 41; see also City of Rome v. United States, 446 U. S.
156, 177–178 (1980). Justice Thomas notes, however, that
even if Congress in 1982 could constitutionally authorize
race-based redistricting under § 2 for some period of time,
the authority to conduct race-based redistricting cannot ex-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tend indefnitely into the future. See post, at 87–88 (dissent-
ing opinion). But Alabama did not raise that temporal argu-
ment in this Court, and I therefore would not consider it at
this time.
For those reasons, I vote to affrm, and I concur in all but
Part III–B–1 of the Court's opinion.

Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins,
with whom Justice Barrett joins as to Parts II and III,
and with whom Justice Alito joins as to Parts II–A and
II–B, dissenting.
These cases “are yet another installment in the `disastrous
misadventure' of this Court's voting rights jurisprudence.”
Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v. Alabama, 575 U. S.
254, 294 (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (quoting Holder v.
Hall, 512 U. S. 874, 893 (1994) (Thomas, J., concurring in
judgment)). What distinguishes them is the uncommon
clarity with which they lay bare the gulf between our “color-
46 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

blind” Constitution, Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537, 559
(1896) (Harlan, J., dissenting), and “the consciously segre-
gated districting system currently being constructed in the
name of the Voting Rights Act.” Holder, 512 U. S., at 907
(opinion of Thomas, J.). The question presented is whether
§ 2 of the Act, as amended, requires the State of Alabama to
intentionally redraw its longstanding congressional districts
so that black voters can control a number of seats roughly
proportional to the black share of the State's population.
Section 2 demands no such thing, and, if it did, the Constitu-
tion would not permit it.
I
At the outset, I would resolve these cases in a way that
would not require the Federal Judiciary to decide the cor-
rect racial apportionment of Alabama's congressional seats.
Under the statutory text, a § 2 challenge must target a “vot-
ing qualifcation or prerequisite to voting or standard, prac-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tice, or procedure.” 52 U. S. C. § 10301(a). I have long been
convinced that those words reach only “enactments that reg-
ulate citizens' access to the ballot or the processes for count-
ing a ballot”; they “do not include a State's . . . choice of one
districting scheme over another.” Holder, 512 U. S., at 945
(opinion of Thomas, J.). “Thus, § 2 cannot provide a basis
for invalidating any district.” Abbott v. Perez, 585 U. S.
–––, ––– (2018) (Thomas, J., concurring).
While I will not repeat all the arguments that led me
to this conclusion nearly three decades ago, see Holder,
512 U. S., at 914–930 (opinion concurring in judgment),
the Court's belated appeal to the statutory text is not
persuasive. See ante, at 39– 40. Whatever words like
“practice” and “procedure” are capable of meaning in a
vacuum, the prohibitions of § 2 apply to practices and proce-
dures that affect “voting” and “the right . . . to vote.”
§ 10301(a). “Vote” and “voting” are defned terms under the
Act, and the Act's defnition plainly focuses on ballot access
and counting:
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 47

Thomas, J., dissenting

“The terms `vote' or `voting' shall include all action
necessary to make a vote effective in any primary, spe-
cial, or general election, including, but not limited to,
registration, listing pursuant to this chapter, or other
action required by law prerequisite to voting, casting a
ballot, and having such ballot counted properly and in-
cluded in the appropriate totals of votes cast with re-
spect to candidates for public or party offce and propo-
sitions for which votes are received in an election.”
§ 10310(c)(1).
In enacting the original Voting Rights Act in 1965, Congress
copied this defnition almost verbatim from Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1960—a law designed to protect access
to the ballot in jurisdictions with patterns or practices of
denying such access based on race, and which cannot be con-
strued to authorize so-called vote-dilution claims. See 74
Stat. 91–92 (codifed in relevant part at 52 U. S. C. § 10101(e)).
Page Proof Pending Publication
Title I of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which cross-referenced
the 1960 Act's defnition of “vote,” likewise protects ballot
access alone and cannot be read to address vote dilution.
See 78 Stat. 241 (codifed in relevant part at 52 U. S. C.
§ 10101(a)). Tellingly, the 1964 Act also used the words
“standard, practice, or procedure” to refer specifcally to vot-
ing qualifcations for individuals and the actions of state and
local offcials in administering such requirements.1 Our en-
tire enterprise of applying § 2 to districting rests on sys-
tematic neglect of these statutory antecedents and, more
broadly, of the ballot-access focus of the 1960s' voting-rights
struggles. See, e. g., Brnovich v. Democratic National
1
“No person acting under color of law shall . . . in determining whether
any individual is qualifed under State law or laws to vote in any election,
apply any standard, practice, or procedure different from the standards,
practices, or procedures applied under such law or laws to other individu-
als within the same county, parish, or similar political subdivision who
have been found by State offcials to be qualifed to vote.” 52 U. S. C.
§ 10101(a)(2)(A).
48 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Committee, 594 U. S. –––, ––– (2021) (describing the “notori-
ous methods” by which, prior to the Voting Rights Act,
States and localities deprived black Americans of the ballot:
“poll taxes, literacy tests, property qualifcations, white pri-
maries, and grandfather clauses” (alterations and internal
quotation marks omitted)).2
Moreover, the majority drastically overstates the stare de-
cisis support for applying § 2 to single-member districting
plans like the one at issue here.3 As the majority implicitly
acknowledges, this Court has only applied § 2 to invalidate
one single-member district in one case. See League of
United Latin American Citizens v. Perry, 548 U. S. 399, 447
(2006) (LULAC) (opinion of Kennedy, J.). And no party in

2
The majority suggests that districting lines are a “ `prerequisite to vot-
ing' ” because they “determin[e] where” voters “cast [their] ballot[s].”
Ante, at 39. But, of course, a voter's polling place is a separate matter
from the district to which he is assigned, and communities are often moved
Page Proof Pending Publication
between districts without changing where their residents go to vote. The
majority's other example (“who [voters] are eligible to vote for,” ibid.) is
so far a stretch from the Act's focus on voting qualifcations and voter
action that it speaks for itself.
3
The majority chides Alabama for declining to specifcally argue that § 2
is inapplicable to multimember and at-large districting plans. But these
cases are about a single-member districting plan, and it is hardly uncom-
mon for parties to limit their arguments to the question presented. Fur-
ther, while I do not myself believe that the text of § 2 applies to multimem-
ber or at-large plans, the idea that such plans might be especially
problematic from a vote-dilution standpoint is hardly foreign to the Court's
precedents, see Johnson v. De Grandy, 512 U. S. 997, 1012 (1994); Growe
v. Emison, 507 U. S. 25, 40 (1993); cf. Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S. 874, 888
(1994) (O'Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (ex-
plaining that single-member districts may provide the benchmark when
multimember or at-large systems are challenged, but suggesting no bench-
mark for challenges to single-member districts), or to the historical evolu-
tion of vote-dilution claims. Neither the case from which the 1982 Con-
gress drew § 2(b)'s current operative language, see White v. Regester, 412
U. S. 755, 766 (1973), nor the one it was responding to, Mobile v. Bolden,
446 U. S. 55 (1980), involved single-member districts.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 49

Thomas, J., dissenting

that case argued that the plaintiffs' vote-dilution claim was
not cognizable. As for Growe v. Emison, 507 U. S. 25 (1993),
it held only that the threshold preconditions for challenging
multimember and at-large plans must limit challenges to
single-member districts with at least the same force, as “[i]t
would be peculiar [if] a vote-dilution challenge to the (more
dangerous) multimember district require[d] a higher thresh-
old showing than a vote-fragmentation challenge to a single-
member district.” Id., at 40. Growe did not consider (or,
thus, reject) an argument that § 2 does not apply to single-
member districts.
In any event, stare decisis should be no barrier to recon-
sidering a line of cases that “was based on a fawed method
of statutory construction from its inception,” has proved in-
capable of principled application after nearly four decades
of experience, and puts federal courts in the business of
“methodically carving the country into racially designated
electoral districts.” Holder, 512 U. S., at 945 (opinion of
Page Proof Pending Publication
Thomas, J.). This Court has “never applied stare decisis
mechanically to prohibit overruling our earlier decisions de-
termining the meaning of statutes,” and it should not do so
here. Monell v. New York City Dept. of Social Servs., 436
U. S. 658, 695 (1978). Stare decisis did not save “separate
but equal,” despite its repeated reaffrmation in this Court
and the pervasive reliance States had placed upon it for dec-
ades. See, e. g., Brief for Appellees in Brown v. Board of
Education, O. T. 1953, No. 1, pp. 18–30. It should not rescue
modern-day forms of de jure racial balkanization—which, as
these cases show, is exactly where our § 2 vote-dilution juris-
prudence has led.4

4
Justice Kavanaugh's partial concurrence emphasizes the supposedly
enhanced stare decisis force of statutory-interpretation precedents. See
ante, at 42–43. This emphasis is puzzling in several respects. As an ini-
tial matter, I can perceive no conceptual “basis for applying a heightened
version of stare decisis to statutory-interpretation decisions”; rather, “our
50 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

II
Even if § 2 applies here, however, Alabama should prevail.
The District Court found that Alabama's congressional dis-
tricting map “dilutes” black residents' votes because, while
it is possible to draw two majority-black districts, Alabama's
map only has one.5 But the critical question in all vote-
dilution cases is: “Diluted relative to what benchmark?”
Gonzalez v. Aurora, 535 F. 3d 594, 598 (CA7 2008) (Easter-
brook, C. J.). Neither the District Court nor the majority
has any defensible answer. The text of § 2 and the logic
of vote-dilution claims require a meaningfully race-neutral
benchmark, and no race-neutral benchmark can justify the
District Court's fnding of vote dilution in these cases. The

judicial duty is to apply the law to the facts of the case, regardless of how
easy it is for the law to change.” Gamble v. United States, 587 U. S.
–––, ––– (2019) (Thomas, J., concurring). Nor does that approach appear
to have any historical foundation in judicial practice at the founding or for
Page Proof Pending Publication
more than a century thereafter. See T. Lee, Stare Decisis in Historical
Perspective: From the Founding Era to the Rehnquist Court, 52 Vand.
L. Rev. 647, 708–732 (1999). But, even putting those problems aside, any
appeal to heightened statutory stare decisis is particularly misplaced in
this context. As the remainder of this dissent explains in depth, the
Court's § 2 precedents differ from “ordinary statutory precedents” in two
vital ways. Ante, at 43, n. 1 (opinion of Kavanaugh, J.). The frst is
their profound tension with the Constitution's hostility to racial classifca-
tions, a tension that Justice Kavanaugh acknowledges and that makes
every § 2 question the reverse side of a corresponding constitutional ques-
tion. See ante, at 45. The second is that, to whatever extent § 2 applies
to districting, it can only “be understood as a delegation of authority to the
courts to develop a common law of racially fair elections.” C. Elmendorf,
Making Sense of Section 2: Of Biased Votes, Unconstitutional Elections,
and Common Law Statutes, 160 U. Pa. L. Rev. 377, 383 (2012). It would
be absurd to maintain that this Court's “notoriously unclear and confus-
ing” § 2 case law follows, in any straightforward way, from the statutory
text's high-fown language about the equal openness of political processes.
Merrill v. Milligan, 595 U. S. –––, ––– (2022) (Kavanaugh, J., concurring
in grant of applications for stays).
5
Like the majority, I refer to both courts below as “the District Court”
without distinction.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 51

Thomas, J., dissenting

only benchmark that can justify it—and the one that the Dis-
trict Court demonstrably applied—is the decidedly nonneu-
tral benchmark of proportional allocation of political power
based on race.
A
As we have long recognized, “the very concept of vote di-
lution implies—and, indeed, necessitates—the existence of
an `undiluted' practice against which the fact of dilution may
be measured.” Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S.
471, 480 (1997). In a challenge to a districting plan, a court
must be able to compare a State's enacted plan with “a hypo-
thetical, undiluted plan,” ibid., ascertained by an “objective
and workable standard.” Holder, 512 U. S., at 881 (plurality
opinion); see also id., at 887 (opinion of O'Connor, J.) (noting
the “general agreement” on this point).
To be sure, it is no easy task to identify an objective, “undi-
luted” benchmark against which to judge a districting plan.
Page Proof Pending Publication
As we recently held in the analogous context of partisan ger-
rymandering, “federal courts are not equipped to apportion
political power as a matter of fairness.” Rucho v. Common
Cause, 588 U. S. –––, ––– (2019). Yet § 2 vote-dilution cases
require nothing less. If § 2 prohibited only intentional racial
discrimination, there would be no diffculty in fnding a clear
and workable rule of decision. But the “results test” that
Congress wrote into § 2 to supersede Mobile v. Bolden, 446
U. S. 55 (1980), eschews intent as the criterion of liability.
See Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S., at 482. Accord-
ingly, a § 2 vote-dilution claim does not simply “as[k] . . . for
the elimination of a racial classifcation.” Rucho, 588 U. S.,
at –––. It asks, instead, “for a fair share of political power
and infuence, with all the justiciability conundrums that en-
tails.” Ibid. Nevertheless, if § 2 applies to single-member
districts, we must accept that some “objective and workable
standard for choosing a reasonable benchmark” exists; other-
wise, single-member districts “cannot be challenged as dilu-
tive under § 2.” Holder, 512 U. S., at 881 (plurality opinion).
52 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Given the diverse circumstances of different jurisdictions,
it would be fanciful to expect a one-size-fts-all defnition of
the appropriate benchmark. Cf. Thornburg v. Gingles, 478
U. S. 30, 79 (1986) (explaining that the vote-dilution inquiry
“is peculiarly dependent upon the facts of each case and re-
quires an intensely local appraisal” (citation and internal
quotation marks omitted)). One overriding principle, how-
ever, should be obvious. A proper districting benchmark
must be race neutral: It must not assume, a priori, that an
acceptable plan should include any particular number or pro-
portion of minority-controlled districts.
I begin with § 2's text. As relevant here, § 2(a) prohibits
a State from “impos[ing] or appl[ying]” any electoral rule “in
a manner which results in a denial or abridgement of the
right . . . to vote on account of race or color.” § 10301(a).
Section 2(b) then provides that § 2(a) is violated
“if, based on the totality of circumstances, . . . the politi-
Page Proof Pending Publication
cal processes leading to nomination or election in the
State . . . are not equally open to participation by mem-
bers of [a protected class] in that its members have less
opportunity than other members of the electorate to
participate in the political process and to elect repre-
sentatives of their choice. The extent to which mem-
bers of a protected class have been elected to offce in
the State . . . is one circumstance which may be consid-
ered: Provided, That nothing in this section establishes
a right to have members of a protected class elected in
numbers equal to their proportion in the population.”
§ 10301(b).
As we held two Terms ago in Brnovich, the “equal open-
ness” requirement is “the core” and “touchstone” of § 2(b),
with “equal opportunity” serving an ancillary function.6 594
6
While Brnovich involved a time-place-and-manner voting rule, not a
vote-dilution challenge to a districting plan, its analysis logically must
apply to vote-dilution cases if the text of § 2 covers such claims at all.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 53

Thomas, J., dissenting

U. S., at –––. Relying signifcantly on § 2(b)'s disclaimer of
a right to proportional representation, we also held that § 2
does not enact a “freewheeling disparate-impact regime.”
Id., at –––, and n. 14. Brnovich further stressed the value
of “benchmarks with which . . . challenged [electoral] rule[s]
can be compared,” id., at –––, and that “a meaningful com-
parison is essential” in judging the signifcance of any chal-
lenged scheme's racially disparate impact. Id., at –––. To
the extent § 2 applies to districting plans, then, it requires
that they be “equally open to participation” by voters of all
races, but it is not a pure disparate-impact statute and does
not guarantee proportional representation.
In its main argument here, Alabama simply carries these
principles to their logical conclusion: Any vote-dilution
benchmark must be race neutral. See Brief for Appellants
32–46. Whatever “equal openness” means in the context of
single-member districting, no “meaningful comparison” is
Page Proof Pending Publication
possible using a benchmark that builds in a presumption in
favor of minority-controlled districts. Indeed, any bench-
mark other than a race-neutral one would render the vote-
dilution inquiry fundamentally circular, allowing courts to
conclude that a districting plan “dilutes” a minority's voting
strength “on account of race” merely because it does not
measure up to an ideal already defned in racial terms. Such
a question-begging standard would not answer our prece-
dents' demand for an “objective,” “reasonable benchmark.”
Holder, 512 U. S., at 881 (plurality opinion) (emphasis added).
Nor could any nonneutral benchmark be reconciled with
Brnovich's rejection of a disparate-impact regime or the
text's disclaimer of a right to proportional representation.
594 U. S., at –––, and n. 14.
There is yet another compelling reason to insist on a race-
neutral benchmark. “The Constitution abhors classifica-
tions based on race.” Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 306,
353 (2003) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in
part). Redistricting is no exception. “Just as the State
54 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

may not, absent extraordinary justifcation, segregate citi-
zens on the basis of race in its public parks, buses, golf
courses, beaches, and schools,” the State also “may not sepa-
rate its citizens into different voting districts on the basis of
race.” Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S. 900, 911 (1995) (citations
omitted). “[D]istricting maps that sort voters on the basis
of race ` “are by their very nature odious.” ' ” Wisconsin
Legislature v. Wisconsin Elections Comm'n, 595 U. S.
398, 401 (2022) (per curiam) (quoting Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S.
630, 643 (1993) (Shaw I)). Accordingly, our precedents apply
strict scrutiny whenever race was “the predominant factor
motivating [the placement of] a signifcant number of voters
within or without a particular district,” Miller, 515 U. S., at
916, or, put another way, whenever “[r]ace was the criterion
that . . . could not be compromised” in a district's formation.
Shaw v. Hunt, 517 U. S. 899, 907 (1996) (Shaw II).
Because “[r]acial gerrymandering, even for remedial pur-
Page Proof Pending Publication
poses, may balkanize us into competing racial factions” and
undermine “the goal of a political system in which race no
longer matters,” Shaw I, 509 U. S., at 657, our cases have
long recognized the need to interpret § 2 to avoid “unnec-
essarily infus[ing] race into virtually every redistricting”
plan. LULAC, 548 U. S., at 446 (opinion of Kennedy, J.); ac-
cord, Bartlett v. Strickland, 556 U. S. 1, 21 (2009) (plurality
opinion). Plainly, however, that “infusion” is the inevitable
result of any race-based benchmark. Any interpretation of
§ 2 that permits courts to condemn enacted districting plans
as dilutive relative to a nonneutral benchmark “would result
in a substantial increase in the number of mandatory dis-
tricts drawn with race as `the predominant factor motivating
the legislature's decision,' ” thus “ `raising serious constitu-
tional questions.' ” Id., at 21–22 (frst quoting Miller, 515
U. S., at 916, then quoting LULAC, 548 U. S., at 446). To
avoid setting § 2 on a collision course with the Constitution,
courts must apply a race-neutral benchmark in assessing any
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 55

Thomas, J., dissenting

claim that a districting plan unlawfully dilutes a racial minor-
ity's voting strength.
B
The plaintiffs in these cases seek a “proportional allocation
of political power according to race.” Holder, 512 U. S., at
936 (opinion of Thomas, J.). According to the 2020 census,
black Alabamians account for 27.16% of the State's total pop-
ulation and 25.9% of its voting-age population, both fgures
slightly less than two-sevenths. Of Alabama's seven exist-
ing congressional districts, one, District 7, is majority-black.7

7
District 7 owes its majority-black status to a 1992 court order. See
Wesch v. Hunt, 785 F. Supp. 1491, 1493–1494, 1496–1497, 1501–1502 (SD
Ala.), aff'd sub nom. Camp v. Wesch, 504 U. S. 902 (1992). At the time,
the Justice Department's approach to preclearance under § 5 of the Act
followed the “so-called `max-black' policy,” which “required States, includ-
ing Alabama, to create supermajority-black voting districts or face denial
of preclearance.” Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v. Alabama, 575
Page Proof Pending Publication
U. S. 254, 298 (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting). Although Wesch was a § 2
case and the court-imposed plan that resulted was not subject to preclear-
ance, see 785 F. Supp., at 1499–1500, there can be little doubt that a similar
ethos dominated that litigation, in which all parties stipulated to the desir-
ability of a 65%-plus majority-black district. See id., at 1498–1499. To
satisfy that dubious need, the Wesch court aggressively adjusted the
northeast and southeast corners of the previous District 7. In the north-
east, where District 7 once encompassed all of Tuscaloosa County and the
more or less rectangular portion of Jefferson County not included in Dis-
trict 6, the 1992 plan drew a long, thin “fnger” that traversed the south-
eastern third of Tuscaloosa County to reach deep into the heart of urban
Birmingham. See Supp. App. 207–208. Of the Jefferson County resi-
dents captured by the “fnger,” 75.48% were black. Wesch, 785 F. Supp.,
at 1569. In the southeast, District 7 swallowed a jigsaw-shaped portion
of Montgomery County, the residents of which were 80.18% black. Id., at
1575. Three years later, in Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S. 900, 923–927
(1995), we rejected the “max-black” policy as unwarranted by § 5 and in-
consistent with the Constitution. But “much damage to the States' con-
gressional and legislative district maps had already been done,” including
in Alabama. Alabama Legislative Black Caucus, 575 U. S., at 299
(Thomas, J., dissenting).
56 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

These cases were brought to compel “the creation of two
majority-minority congressional districts”—roughly propor-
tional control. 1 App. 135 (emphasis added); see also id., at
314 (“Plaintiffs seek an order . . . ordering a congressional
redistricting plan that includes two majority-Black congres-
sional districts”).
Remarkably, the majority fails to acknowledge that two
minority-controlled districts would mean proportionality, or
even that black Alabamians are about two-sevenths of the
State. Yet that context is critical to the issues before us,
not least because it explains the extent of the racial sorting
the plaintiffs' goal would require. “[A]s a matter of mathe-
matics,” single-member districting “tends to deal out repre-
sentation far short of proportionality to virtually all minori-
ties, from environmentalists in Alaska to Republicans in
Massachusetts.” M. Duchin & D. Spencer, Models, Race,
and the Law, 130 Yale L. J. Forum 744, 752 (2021) (Duchin &
Spencer). As such, creating two majority-black districts
Page Proof Pending Publication
would require Alabama to aggressively “sort voters on the
basis of race.” Wisconsin Legislature, 595 U. S., at 401.
The plaintiffs' 11 illustrative maps make that clear. All
11 maps refashion existing District 2 into a majority-black
district while preserving the current black majority in Dis-
trict 7. They all follow the same approach: Starting with
majority-black areas of populous Montgomery County, they
expand District 2 east and west to encompass predominantly
majority-black areas throughout the rural “Black Belt.” In
the process, the plans are careful to leave enough of the
Black Belt for District 7 to maintain its black majority.
Then—and critically—the plans have District 2 extend a
southwestern tendril into Mobile County to capture a dense,
high-population majority-black cluster in urban Mobile. 8
8
I have included an Appendix, infra, illustrating the plaintiffs' 11 pro-
posed maps. The frst 10 images display the “black-only” voting-age pop-
ulation of census-designated voting districts in relation to the maps' hypo-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 57

Thomas, J., dissenting

See Supp. App. 184, 186, 188, 190, 193, 195, 197, 199, 201, 203;
see also id., at 149.
Those black Mobilians currently reside in the urban heart
of District 1. For 50 years, District 1 has occupied the
southwestern pocket of Alabama, consisting of the State's
two populous Gulf Coast counties (Mobile and Baldwin) as
well as some less populous areas to the immediate north and
east. See id., at 205–211. It is indisputable that the Gulf
Coast region is the sort of community of interest that the
Alabama Legislature might reasonably think a congressional
district should be built around. It contains Alabama's only
coastline, its fourth largest city, and the Port of Mobile. Its
physical geography runs north along the Alabama and Mo-
bile Rivers, whose paths District 1 follows. Its economy is
tied to the Gulf—to shipping, shipbuilding, tourism, and com-
mercial fshing. See Brief for Coastal Alabama Partnership
as Amicus Curiae 13–15.
But, for the plaintiffs to secure their majority-black Dis-
Page Proof Pending Publication
trict 2, this longstanding, compact, and eminently sensible
district must be radically transformed. In the Gulf Coast
region, the newly drawn District 1 would retain only the
majority-white areas that District 2 did not absorb on its
path to Mobile's large majority-black population. To make
up the lost population, District 1 would have to extend east-
ward through largely majority-white rural counties along the
length of Alabama's border with the Florida panhandle.
The plaintiffs do not assert that white residents on the Gulf
Coast have anything special in common with white residents
in those communities, and the District Court made no such
fnding. The plaintiffs' maps would thus reduce District 1
to the leftover white communities of the southern fringe of
the State, its shape and constituents defned almost entirely

thetical district lines. The record does not contain a similar illustration
for the 11th map, but a simple visual comparison with the other maps
suffces.
58 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

by the need to make District 2 majority-black while also re-
taining a majority-black District 7.
The plaintiffs' mapmaking experts left little doubt that
their plans prioritized race over neutral districting criteria.
Dr. Moon Duchin, who devised four of the plans, testifed
that achieving “two majority-black districts” was a “nonne-
gotiable principl[e]” in her eyes, a status shared only by our
precedents' “population balance” requirement. 2 App. 634;
see also id., at 665, 678. Only “after” those two “nonnego-
tiable[s]” were satisfed did Dr. Duchin then give lower prior-
ity to “contiguity” and “compactness.” Id., at 634. The ar-
chitect of the other seven maps, William Cooper, considered
“minority voting strengt[h]” a “traditional redistricting prin-
cipl[e]” in its own right, id., at 591, and treated “the minority
population in and of itself ” as the paramount community of
interest in his plans, id., at 601.
Statistical evidence also underscored the illustrative maps'
Page Proof Pending Publication
extreme racial sorting. Another of the plaintiffs' experts,
Dr. Kosuke Imai, computer generated 10,000 districting
plans using a race-blind algorithm programmed to observe
several objective districting criteria. Supp. App. 58–59.
None of those plans contained even one majority-black dis-
trict. Id., at 61. Dr. Imai generated another 20,000 plans
using the same algorithm, but with the additional constraint
that they must contain at least one majority-black district;
none of those plans contained a second majority-black dis-
trict, or even a second district with a black voting-age popu-
lation above 40%. Id., at 54, 67, 71–72. In a similar vein,
Dr. Duchin testifed about an academic study in which she
had randomly “generated 2 million districting plans for Ala-
bama” using a race-neutral algorithm that gave priority to
compactness and contiguity. 2 App. 710; see Duchin &
Spencer 765. She “found some [plans] with one majority-
black district, but never found a second . . . majority-black
district in 2 million attempts.” 2 App. 710. “[T]hat it is
hard to draw two majority-black districts by accident,”
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 59

Thomas, J., dissenting

Dr. Duchin explained, “show[ed] the importance of doing so
on purpose.” Id., at 714.9
The plurality of Justices who join Part III–B–1 of The
Chief Justice's opinion appear to agree that the plaintiffs
could not prove the frst precondition of their statewide vote-
dilution claim—that black Alabamians could constitute a ma-
jority in two “reasonably confgured” districts, Wisconsin
Legislature, 595 U. S., at 402 —by drawing an illustrative
map in which race was predominant. See ante, at 33. That
should be the end of these cases, as the illustrative maps
here are palpable racial gerrymanders. The plaintiffs' ex-
perts clearly applied “express racial target[s]” by setting out
to create 50%-plus majority-black districts in both Districts
2 and 7. Bethune-Hill v. Virginia State Bd. of Elections,
580 U. S. 178, 192 (2017). And it is impossible to conceive of
the State adopting the illustrative maps without pursuing the
same racially motivated goals. Again, the maps' key design
Page Proof Pending Publication
features are: (1) making District 2 majority-black by con-
necting black residents in one metropolitan area (Montgom-
ery) with parts of the rural Black Belt and black residents
in another metropolitan area (Mobile); (2) leaving enough of
the Black Belt's majority-black rural areas for District 7 to
maintain its majority-black status; and (3) reducing District
1 to the white remainder of the southern third of the State.
If the State did this, we would call it a racial gerrymander,
and rightly so. We would have no diffculty recognizing race
as “the predominant factor motivating [the placement of] sig-
nifcant number[s] of voters within or without” Districts 1, 2,

9
The majority notes that this study used demographic data from the
2010 census, not the 2020 one. That is irrelevant, since the black popula-
tion share in Alabama changed little (from 26.8% to 27.16%) between the
two censuses. To think that this minor increase might have changed
Dr. Duchin's results would be to entirely miss her point: that proportional
representation for any minority, unless achieved “by design,” is a statisti-
cal anomaly in almost all single-member-districting systems. Duchin &
Spencer 764.
60 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

and 7. Miller, 515 U. S., at 916. The “stark splits in the
racial composition of populations moved into and out of ” Dis-
tricts 1 and 2 would make that obvious. Bethune-Hill, 580
U. S., at 192. So would the manifest absence of any nonra-
cial justifcation for the new District 1. And so would the
State's clear intent to ensure that both Districts 2 and 7 hit
their preordained racial targets. See ibid. (noting that
“pursu[it of] a common redistricting policy toward multiple
districts” may show predominance). That the plan deliv-
ered proportional control for a particular minority—a statis-
tical anomaly that over 2 million race-blind simulations did
not yield and 20,000 race-conscious simulations did not even
approximate—would be still further confrmation.
The State could not justify such a plan simply by arguing
that it was less bizarre to the naked eye than other, more
elaborate racial gerrymanders we have encountered. See
ante, at 27–28 (discussing cases). As we held in Miller, vis-
ual “bizarreness” is not “a necessary element of the constitu-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tional wrong,” only “persuasive circumstantial evidence.”
515 U. S., at 912–913.10

10
Of course, bizarreness is in the eye of the beholder, and, while labels
like “ `tentacles' ” or “ `appendages' ” have no ultimate legal signifcance, it
is far from clear that they do not apply here. See ante, at 20. The ten-
drils with which the various versions of illustrative District 2 would cap-
ture black Mobilians are visually striking and are easily recognized as a
racial grab against the backdrop of the State's demography. The District
7 “fnger,” which encircles the black population of the Birmingham metro-
politan area in order to separate them from their white neighbors and link
them with black rural areas in the west of the State, also stands out to
the naked eye. The District Court disregarded the “fnger” because it
has been present in every districting plan since 1992, including the State's
latest enacted plan. Singleton v. Merrill, 582 F. Supp. 3d 924, 1011 (ND
Ala. 2022) (per curiam). But that reasoning would allow plaintiffs to
bootstrap one racial gerrymander as a reason for permitting a second.
Because the question is not before us, I express no opinion on whether
existing District 7 is constitutional as enacted by the State. It is indis-
putable, however, that race predominated in the original creation of the
district, see n. 7, supra, and it is plain that the primary race-neutral justi-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 61

Thomas, J., dissenting

Nor could such a plan be explained by supposed respect for
the Black Belt. For present purposes, I accept the District
Court's fnding that the Black Belt is a signifcant community
of interest. But the entire black population of the Black
Belt—some 300,000 black residents, see Supp. App. 33—is
too small to provide a majority in a single congressional dis-
trict, let alone two.11 The black residents needed to popu-
late majority-black versions of Districts 2 and 7 are over-
whelmingly concentrated in the urban counties of Jefferson
(i. e., the Birmingham metropolitan area, with about 290,000
black residents), Mobile (about 152,000 black residents), and
Montgomery (about 134,000 black residents). Id., at 83. Of
the three, only Montgomery County is in the Black Belt.
The plaintiffs' maps, therefore, cannot and do not achieve
their goal of two majority-black districts by “join[ing] to-
gether” the Black Belt, as the majority seems wrongly to
believe. Ante, at 21. Rather, their majority-black districts
are anchored by three separate high-density clusters of black
Page Proof Pending Publication
residents in three separate metropolitan areas, two of them
outside the Black Belt. The Black Belt's largely rural re-
mainder is then divided between the two districts to the ex-
tent needed to fll out their population numbers with black
majorities in both. Respect for the Black Belt as a com-
munity of interest cannot explain this approach. The only

fcation for the district today must be the State's legitimate interest in
“preserving the cores of prior districts” and the fact that the areas consti-
tuting District 7's core have been grouped together for decades. Karcher
v. Daggett, 462 U. S. 725, 740 (1983); see also id., at 758 (Stevens, J., concur-
ring) (explaining that residents of a political unit “often develop a commu-
nity of interest”). The plaintiffs' maps, however, necessarily would re-
quire the State to assign little weight to core retention with respect to
other districts. There could then be no principled race-neutral justifca-
tion for prioritizing core retention only when it preserved an existing
majority-black district, while discarding it when it stood in the way of
creating a new one.
11
The equal-population baseline for Alabama's seven districts is 717,154
persons per district.
62 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

explanation is the plaintiffs' express racial target: two
majority-black districts and statewide proportionality.
The District Court nonetheless found that race did not
predominate in the plaintiffs' illustrative maps because Dr.
Duchin and Mr. Cooper “prioritized race only as necessary
. . . to draw two reasonably compact majority-Black congres-
sional districts,” as opposed to “maximiz[ing] the number of
majority-Black districts, or the BVAP [black voting-age pop-
ulation] in any particular majority-Black district.” Single-
ton v. Merrill, 582 F. Supp. 3d 924, 1029–1030 (ND Ala. 2022)
(per curiam). This reasoning shows a profound misunder-
standing of our racial-gerrymandering precedents. As ex-
plained above, what triggers strict scrutiny is the intentional
use of a racial classifcation in placing “a signifcant number
of voters within or without a particular district.” Miller,
515 U. S., at 916. Thus, any plan whose predominant pur-
pose is to achieve a nonnegotiable, predetermined racial tar-
get in a nonnegotiable, predetermined number of districts is
Page Proof Pending Publication
a racial gerrymander subject to strict scrutiny. The precise
fraction used as the racial target, and the number of districts
it is applied to, are irrelevant.
In affrming the District Court's nonpredominance fnding,
the plurality glosses over these plain legal errors,12 and it
12
The plurality's somewhat elliptical discussion of “the line between ra-
cial predominance and racial consciousness,” ante, at 31, suggests that it
may have fallen into a similar error. To the extent the plurality supposes
that, under our precedents, a State may purposefully sort voters based on
race to some indefnite extent without crossing the line into predominance,
it is wrong, and its predominance analysis would water down decades of
racial-gerrymandering jurisprudence. Our constitutional precedents' line
between racial awareness and racial predominance simply tracks the dis-
tinction between awareness of consequences, on the one hand, and discrim-
inatory purpose, on the other. See Miller, 515 U. S., at 916 (“ `Discrimina-
tory purpose implies more than intent as volition or intent as awareness
of consequences. It implies that the decisionmaker selected or reaffrmed
a particular course of action at least in part “because of,” not merely “in
spite of,” its adverse effects' ” (alterations and some internal quotation
marks omitted)); accord, Shaw I, 509 U. S. 630, 646 (1993). And our state-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 63

Thomas, J., dissenting

entirely ignores Dr. Duchin's plans—presumably because her
own explanation of her method sounds too much like text-
book racial predominance. Compare 2 App. 634 (“[A]fter . . .
what I took to be nonnegotiable principles of population bal-
ance and seeking two majority-black districts, after that, I
took contiguity as a requirement and compactness as para-
mount” (emphasis added)) and id., at 635 (“I took . . . county
integrity to take precedence over the level of [black voting-
age population] once that level was past 50 percent” (empha-
sis added)), with Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 189 (explaining
that race predominates when it “ `was the criterion that . . .
could not be compromised,' and race-neutral considerations
`came into play only after the race-based decision had been
made' ” (quoting Shaw II, 517 U. S., at 907)), and Miller, 515
U. S., at 916 (explaining that race predominates when “the
[mapmaker] subordinated traditional race-neutral districting
principles . . . to racial considerations”). The plurality thus
affrms the District Court's fnding only in part and with re-
Page Proof Pending Publication
gard to Mr. Cooper's plans alone.
In doing so, the plurality acts as if the only relevant evi-
dence were Mr. Cooper's testimony about his own mental
state and the State's expert's analysis of Mr. Cooper's maps.
See ante, at 31–32. Such a blinkered view of the issue is
unjustifable. All 11 illustrative maps follow the same ap-
proach to creating two majority-black districts. The essen-
tial design features of Mr. Cooper's maps are indistinguish-
able from Dr. Duchin's, and it is those very design features
that would require race to predominate. None of the plain-
tiffs' maps could possibly be drawn by a mapmaker who was
merely “aware of,” rather than motivated by, “racial demo-
graphics.” Miller, 515 U. S., at 916. They could only ever
be drawn by a mapmaker whose predominant motive was

ments that § 2 “demands consideration of race,” Abbott v. Perez, 585 U. S.
–––, ––– (2018), and uses a “race-conscious calculus,” De Grandy, 512 U. S.,
at 1020, did not imply that a State can ever purposefully sort voters on a
race-predominant basis without triggering strict scrutiny.
64 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

hitting the “express racial target” of two majority-black dis-
tricts. Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 192.13
The plurality endeavors in vain to blunt the force of this
obvious fact. See ante, at 32–33. Contrary to the plural-
ity's apparent understanding, nothing in Bethune-Hill sug-
gests that “an express racial target” is not highly probative
evidence of racial predominance. 580 U. S., at 192 (placing
“express racial target[s]” alongside “stark splits in the racial
composition of [redistricted] populations” as “relevant dis-
trictwide evidence”). That the Bethune-Hill majority “de-
cline[d]” to act as a “ `court of . . . frst view,' ” instead leaving
the ultimate issue of predominance for remand, cannot be
transmuted into such an implausible holding or, in truth, any
holding at all. Id., at 193.
The plurality is also mistaken that my predominance anal-
ysis would doom every illustrative map a § 2 plaintiff “ever
adduced.” Ante, at 33 (emphasis deleted). Rather, it would
mean only that—because § 2 requires a race-neutral bench-
Page Proof Pending Publication
mark—plaintiffs cannot satisfy their threshold burden of
showing a reasonably confgured alternative plan with a pro-
posal that could only be viewed as a racial gerrymander if
13
The plurality's reasoning does not withstand scrutiny even on its own
terms. Like Dr. Duchin, Mr. Cooper found it “necessary to consider race”
to construct two majority-black districts, 2 App. 591, and he frankly ac-
knowledged “reconfgur[ing]” the southern part of the State “to create
the second African-American majority district,” id., at 610. Further, his
conclusory statement that race did not “predominate” in his plans, id., at
595, must be interpreted in light of the rest of his testimony and the record
as a whole. Mr. Cooper recognized communities of interest as a tradi-
tional districting principle, but he applied that principle in a nakedly race-
focused manner, explaining that “the minority population in and of itself ”
was the community of interest that was “top of mind as [he] was drawing
the plan[s].” Id., at 601. As noted, he also testifed that he considered
“minority voting strengt[h]” to be a “traditional redistricting principl[e]”
in its own right. Id., at 591. His testimony therefore buttresses, rather
than undermines, the conclusion already obvious from the maps them-
selves: Only a mapmaker pursuing a fxed racial target would produce
them.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 65

Thomas, J., dissenting

enacted by the State. This rule would not bar a showing,
in an appropriate case, that a State could create an additional
majority-minority district through a reasonable redistricting
process in which race did not predominate. It would, on the
other hand, screen out efforts to use § 2 to push racially pro-
portional districting to the limits of what a State's geography
and demography make possible—the approach taken by the
illustrative maps here.
C
The foregoing analysis should be enough to resolve these
cases: If the plaintiffs have not shown that Alabama could
create two majority-black districts without resorting to a ra-
cial gerrymander, they cannot have shown that Alabama's
one-majority-black-district map “dilutes” black Alabamians'
voting strength relative to any meaningfully race-neutral
benchmark. The inverse, however, is not true: Even if it
were possible to regard the illustrative maps as not requiring
Page Proof Pending Publication
racial predominance, it would not necessarily follow that a
two-majority-black-district map was an appropriate bench-
mark. All that might follow is that the illustrative maps
were reasonably confgured—in other words, that they were
consistent with some reasonable application of traditional
districting criteria in which race did not predominate. See
LULAC, 548 U. S., at 433. But, in virtually all jurisdictions,
there are countless possible districting schemes that could
be considered reasonable in that sense. The mere fact that
a plaintiff's illustrative map is one of them cannot justify
making it the benchmark against which other plans should
be judged. Cf. Rucho, 588 U. S., at ––– – ––– (explaining the
lack of judicially manageable standards for evaluating the
relative fairness of different applications of traditional dis-
tricting criteria).
That conceptual gap—between “reasonable” and “bench-
mark”—is highly relevant here. Suppose, for argument's
sake, that Alabama reasonably could decide to create two
majority-black districts by (1) connecting Montgomery's
66 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

black residents with Mobile's black residents, (2) dividing up
the rural parts of the Black Belt between that district and
another district with its population core in the majority-
black parts of the Birmingham area, and (3) accepting the
extreme disruption to District 1 and the Gulf Coast that this
approach would require. The plaintiffs prefer that approach
because it allows the creation of two majority-black districts,
which they think Alabama should have. But even if that
approach were reasonable, there is hardly any compelling
race-neutral reason to elevate such a plan to a benchmark
against which all other plans must be measured. Nothing
in Alabama's geography or demography makes it clearly
the best way, or even a particularly attractive way, to draw
three of seven equally populous districts. The State has
obvious legitimate, race-neutral reasons to prefer its own
map—most notably, its interest in “preserving the cores
of prior districts” and the Gulf Coast community of interest
Page Proof Pending Publication
in District 1. Karcher v. Daggett, 462 U. S. 725, 740
(1983). And even discounting those interests would not
yield a race-neutral case for treating the plaintiffs' approach
as a suitable benchmark: Absent core retention, there is no
apparent race-neutral reason to insist that District 7 remain
a majority-black district uniting Birmingham's majority-
black neighborhoods with majority-black rural areas in the
Black Belt.
Finally, it is surely probative that over 2 million race-
neutral simulations did not yield a single plan with two
majority-black districts, and even 20,000 simulations with a
one-majority-black-district foor did not yield a second dis-
trict with a black voting-age population over 40%. If any
plan with two majority-black districts would be an “out-out-
out-outlier” within the likely universe of race-neutral dis-
tricting plans, Rucho, 588 U. S., at ––– (Kagan, J., dissent-
ing), it is hard to see how the mere possibility of drawing
two majority-black districts could show that a one-district
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 67

Thomas, J., dissenting

map diluted black Alabamians' votes relative to any appro-
priate benchmark.14
D
Given all this, by what benchmark did the District Court
fnd that Alabama's enacted plan was dilutive? The answer
is as simple as it is unlawful: The District Court applied a
benchmark of proportional control based on race. To be
sure, that benchmark was camoufaged by the elaborate vote-
dilution framework we have inherited from Gingles. But
nothing else in that framework or in the District Court's rea-
soning supplies an alternative benchmark capable of explain-
ing the District Court's bottom line: that Alabama's one-

14
The majority points to limitations of Dr. Duchin's and Dr. Imai's algo-
rithms that do not undermine the strong inference from their results to
the conclusion that no two-majority-black-district plan could be an appro-
priate proxy for the undiluted benchmark. Ante, at 33–34, 36–37. I have
already explained why the fact that Dr. Duchin's study used 2010 census
Page Proof Pending Publication
data is irrelevant. See n. 9, supra. As for the algorithms' inability to
incorporate all possible districting considerations, the absence of addi-
tional constraints cannot explain their failure to produce any maps hitting
the plaintiffs' preferred racial target. Next, while it is true that the num-
ber of possible districting plans is extremely large, that does not mean it
is impossible to generate a statistically signifcant sample. Here, for in-
stance, Dr. Imai explained that “10,000 simulated plans” was suffcient to
“yield statistically precise conclusions” and that any higher number would
“not materially affect” the results. Supp. App. 60. Finally, the majority
notes Dr. Duchin's testimony that her “exploratory algorithms” found
“thousands” of possible two-majority-black-district maps. 2 App. 622; see
ante, at 34, n. 7. Setting aside that Dr. Duchin never provided the denom-
inator of which those “thousands” were the numerator, it is no wonder
that the algorithms in question generated such maps; as Dr. Duchin ex-
plained, she programmed them with “an algorithmic preference” for “plans
in which there would be a second majority-minority district.” 2 App. 709.
Thus, all that those algorithmic results prove is that it is possible to draw
two majority-black districts in Alabama if one sets out to do so, especially
with the help of sophisticated mapmaking software. What is still lacking
is any justifcation for treating a two-majority-black-district map as a
proxy for the undiluted benchmark.
68 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

majority-black-district map dilutes black voters' fair share of
political power.
Under Gingles, the majority explains, there are three
“preconditions” to a vote-dilution claim: (1) the relevant “mi-
nority group must be suffciently large and geographically
compact to constitute a majority in a reasonably confgured
district”; (2) the minority group must be “politically cohe-
sive”; and (3) the majority group must “vot[e] suffciently as
a bloc to enable it to defeat the minority's preferred candi-
date[s].” Ante, at 18 (alterations and internal quotation
marks omitted). If these preconditions are satisfed, Gin-
gles instructs courts to “consider the totality of the circum-
stances and to determine, based upon a searching practical
evaluation of the past and present reality, whether the politi-
cal process is equally open to minority voters.” 478 U. S.,
at 79 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).
The majority gives the impression that, in applying this
Page Proof Pending Publication
framework, the District Court merely followed a set of well-
settled, determinate legal principles. But it is widely ac-
knowledged that “Gingles and its progeny have engendered
considerable disagreement and uncertainty regarding the na-
ture and contours of a vote dilution claim,” with commenta-
tors “noting the lack of any `authoritative resolution of the
basic questions one would need to answer to make sense of
[§ 2's] results test.' ” Merrill v. Milligan, 595 U. S. –––, –––
– ––– (2022) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting from grant of applica-
tions for stays) (quoting C. Elmendorf, Making Sense of Sec-
tion 2: Of Biased Votes, Unconstitutional Elections, and
Common Law Statutes, 160 U. Pa. L. Rev. 377, 389 (2012)).
If there is any “area of law notorious for its many unsolved
puzzles,” this is it. J. Chen & N. Stephanopoulos, The Race-
Blind Future of Voting Rights, 130 Yale L. J. 862, 871 (2021);
see also Duchin & Spencer 758 (“Vote dilution on the basis
of group membership is a crucial instance of the lack of a
prescribed ideal”).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 69

Thomas, J., dissenting

The source of this confusion is fundamental: Quite simply,
we have never succeeded in translating the Gingles frame-
work into an objective and workable method of identifying
the undiluted benchmark. The second and third precondi-
tions are all but irrelevant to the task. They essentially col-
lapse into one question: Is voting racially polarized such that
minority-preferred candidates consistently lose to majority-
preferred ones? See Gingles, 478 U. S., at 51. Even if the
answer is yes, that tells a court nothing about “how hard it
`should' be for minority voters to elect their preferred candi-
dates under an acceptable system.” Id., at 88 (O'Connor, J.,
concurring in judgment). Perhaps an acceptable system is
one in which the minority simply cannot elect its preferred
candidates; it is, after all, a minority. Rejecting that out-
come as “dilutive” requires a value judgment relative to a
benchmark that polarization alone cannot provide.
The frst Gingles precondition is only marginally more use-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ful. True, the benchmark in a redistricting challenge must
be “a hypothetical, undiluted plan,” Bossier Parish School
Bd., 520 U. S., at 480, and the frst precondition at least re-
quires plaintiffs to identify some hypothetical alternative
plan. Yet that alternative plan need only be “reasonably
confgured,” and—as explained above—to say that a plan is
reasonable is a far cry from establishing an objective stand-
ard of fairness.
That leaves only the Gingles framework's fnal stage: the
totality-of-circumstances determination whether a State's
“political process is equally open to minority voters.” 478
U. S., at 79. But this formulation is mere verbiage unless
one knows what an “equally open” system should look like—
in other words, what the benchmark is. And, our cases offer
no substantive guidance on how to identify the undiluted
benchmark at the totality stage. The best they have to offer
is a grab bag of amorphous “factors”—widely known as the
Senate factors, after the Senate Judiciary Committee Report
70 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

accompanying the 1982 amendments to § 2—that Gingles
said “typically may be relevant to a § 2 claim.” See id., at
44–45. Those factors, however, amount to no more than “a
list of possible considerations that might be consulted by a
court attempting to develop a gestalt view of the political
and racial climate in a jurisdiction.” Holder, 512 U. S., at
938 (opinion of Thomas, J.). Such a gestalt view is far re-
moved from the necessary benchmark of a hypothetical, un-
diluted districting plan.
To see this, one need only consider the District Court's use
of the Senate factors here. See 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1018–
1024. The court began its totality-stage analysis by re-
iterating what nobody disputes: that voting in Alabama is
racially polarized, with black voters overwhelmingly pre-
ferring Democrats and white voters largely preferring
Republicans. To rebut the State's argument that this pat-
tern is attributable to politics, not race per se, the court
Page Proof Pending Publication
noted that Donald Trump (who is white) prevailed over Ben
Carson (who is black) in the 2016 Republican Presidential
primary. Next, the court observed that black candidates
rarely win statewide elections in Alabama and that black
state legislators overwhelmingly come from majority-
minority districts. The court then reviewed Alabama's his-
tory of racial discrimination, noted other voting-rights cases
in which the State was found liable, and cataloged socioeco-
nomic disparities between black and white Alabamians in ev-
erything from car ownership to health insurance coverage.
The court attributed these disparities “at least in part”
to the State's history of discrimination and found that they
hinder black residents from participating in politics today,
notwithstanding the fact that black and white Alabamians
register and turn out to vote at similar rates. Id., at 1021–
1022. Last, the court interpreted a handful of comments by
three white politicians as “racial campaign appeals.” Id., at
1023–1024.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 71

Thomas, J., dissenting

In reviewing this march through the Senate factors, it is
impossible to discern any overarching standard or central
question, only what might be called an impressionistic moral
audit of Alabama's racial past and present. Nor is it possible
to determine any logical nexus between this audit and the
remedy ordered: a congressional districting plan in which
black Alabamians can control more than one seat. Given the
District Court's finding that two reasonably configured
majority-black districts could be drawn, would Alabama's
one-district map have been acceptable if Ben Carson had won
the 2016 primary, or if a greater number of black Alabamians
owned cars?
The idea that such factors could explain the District
Court's judgment line is absurd. The plaintiffs' claims pose
one simple question: What is the “right” number of Ala-
bama's congressional seats that black voters who support
Democrats “should” control? Neither the Senate factors nor
Page Proof Pending Publication
the Gingles framework as a whole offers any principled
answer.
In reality, the limits of the Gingles preconditions and the
aimlessness of the totality-of-circumstances inquiry left the
District Court only one obvious and readily administrable
option: a benchmark of “allocation of seats in direct propor-
tion to the minority group's percentage in the population.”
Holder, 512 U. S., at 937 (opinion of Thomas, J.). True, as
discussed above, that benchmark is impossible to square with
what the majority calls § 2(b)'s “robust disclaimer against
proportionality,” ante, at 13, and it runs headlong into grave
constitutional problems. See Parents Involved in Commu-
nity Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. 1, 551 U. S. 701, 730
(2007) (plurality opinion). Nonetheless, the intuitive pull of
proportionality is undeniable. “Once one accepts the propo-
sition that the effectiveness of votes is measured in terms of
the control of seats, the core of any vote dilution claim” “is
inherently based on ratios between the numbers of the mi-
72 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

nority in the population and the numbers of seats con-
trolled,” and there is no more logical ratio than direct
proportionality. Holder, 512 U. S., at 902 (opinion of Tho-
mas, J.). Combine that intuitive appeal with the “lack of
any better alternative” identifed in our case law to date, id.,
at 937, and we should not be surprised to learn that propor-
tionality generally explains the results of § 2 cases after the
Gingles preconditions are satisfed. See E. Katz, M. Aisen-
brey, A. Baldwin, E. Cheuse, & A. Weisbrodt, Documenting
Discrimination in Voting: Judicial Findings Under Section 2
of the Voting Rights Act Since 1982, 39 U. Mich. J. L. Reform
643, 730–732 (2006) (surveying lower court cases and fnding
a near-perfect correlation between proportionality fndings
and liability results).
Thus, in the absence of an alternative benchmark, the
vote-dilution inquiry has a strong and demonstrated tend-
ency to collapse into a rough two-part test: (1) Does the chal-
Page Proof Pending Publication
lenged districting plan give the relevant minority group con-
trol of a proportional share of seats? (2) If not, has the
plaintiff shown that some reasonably confgured districting
plan could better approximate proportional control? In this
approach, proportionality is the ultimate benchmark, and the
frst Gingles precondition becomes a proxy for whether that
benchmark is reasonably attainable in practice.
Beneath all the trappings of the Gingles framework, that
two-part test describes how the District Court applied § 2
here. The gravitational force of proportionality is obvious
throughout its opinion. At the front end, the District Court
even built proportionality into its understanding of Gingles'
frst precondition, fnding the plaintiffs' illustrative maps to
be reasonably confgured in part because they “provide[d] a
number of majority-Black districts . . . roughly proportional
to the Black percentage of the population.” 582 F. Supp. 3d,
at 1016. At the back end, the District Court concluded its
“totality” analysis by revisiting proportionality and fnding
that it “weigh[ed] decidedly in favor of the plaintiffs.” Id.,
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 73

Thomas, J., dissenting

at 1025. While the District Court disclaimed giving over-
riding signifcance to proportionality, the fact remains that
nothing else in its reasoning provides a logical nexus to its
fnding of a districting wrong and a need for a districting
remedy. Finally, as if to leave no doubt about its implicit
benchmark, the court admonished the State that “any reme-
dial plan will need to include two districts in which Black
voters either comprise a voting-age majority or something
quite close.” Id., at 1033. In sum, the District Court's thinly
disguised benchmark was proportionality: Black Alabamians
are about two-sevenths of the State's population, so they
should control two of the State's seven congressional seats.
That was error—perhaps an understandable error given
the limitations of the Gingles framework, but error nonethe-
less. As explained earlier, any principled application of § 2
to cases such as these requires a meaningfully race-neutral
benchmark. The benchmark cannot be an a priori thumb
on the scale for racially proportional control.
Page Proof Pending Publication
E
The majority opinion does not acknowledge the District
Court's express proportionality-based reasoning. That
omission is of a piece with its earlier noted failures to ac-
knowledge the well-known indeterminacy of the Gingles
framework, that black Alabamians are about two-sevenths of
the State's population, and that the plaintiffs here are thus
seeking statewide proportionality. Through this pattern of
omissions, the majority obscures the burning question in
these cases. The District Court's vote-dilution fnding can
be justifed only by a racially loaded benchmark—specifcally,
a benchmark of proportional control based on race. Is that
the benchmark the statute demands? The majority fails to
confront this question head on, and it studiously avoids men-
tioning anything that would require it to do so.
The same nonresponsiveness infects the majority's analy-
sis, which is largely devoted to rebutting an argument no-
74 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

body makes. Contrary to the majority's telling, Alabama
does not equate the “race-neutral benchmark” with “the me-
dian or average number of majority-minority districts” in a
large computer-generated set of race-blind districting plans.
Ante, at 23. The State's argument for a race-neutral bench-
mark is rooted in the text of § 2, the logic of vote-dilution
claims, and the constitutional problems with any nonneutral
benchmark. See Brief for Appellants 32–46. It then relies
on the computer evidence in these cases, among other facts, to
argue that the plaintiffs have not shown dilution relative to
any race-neutral benchmark. See id., at 54–56. But the idea
that “race-neutral benchmark” means the composite average
of many computer-generated plans is the majority's alone.
After thus straw-manning Alabama's arguments at the
outset, the majority muddles its own response. In a per-
functory footnote, it disclaims any holding that “algorithmic
mapmaking” evidence “is categorically irrelevant” in § 2
cases. Ante, at 36, n. 8. That conclusion, however, is the
Page Proof Pending Publication
obvious implication of the majority's reasoning and rhetoric.
See ante, at 35 (decrying a “map-comparison test” as “fawed
in its fundamentals” even if it involves concededly “adequate
comparators”); see also ante, at 25–26 (stating that the
“focu[s]” of § 2 analysis is “on the specifc illustrative maps
that a plaintiff adduces,” leaving unstated the implication
that other algorithmically generated maps are irrelevant).
The majority in effect, if not in word, thus forecloses any
meaningful use of computer evidence to help locate the undi-
luted benchmark.
There are two critical problems with this fat. The frst,
which the majority seems to recognize yet fails to resolve,
is that excluding such computer evidence from view cannot
be reconciled with § 2's command to consider “the totality of
circumstances.” 15 Second—and more fundamentally—the
15
The majority lodges a similar accusation against the State's arguments
(or what it takes to be the State's arguments). See ante, at 26 (“Alabama
suggests there is only one `circumstance' that matters—how the State's
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 75

Thomas, J., dissenting

reasons that the majority gives for downplaying the rele-
vance of computer evidence would more logically support
a holding that there is no judicially manageable way of ap-
plying § 2's results test to single-member districts. The ma-
jority waxes about the “myriad considerations” that go into
districting, the “diffcult, contestable choices” those consider-
ations require, and how “[n]othing in § 2 provides an answer”
to the question of how well any given algorithm approxi-
mates the correct benchmark. Ante, at 35 (internal quota-
tion marks omitted). In the end, it concludes, “Section 2
cannot require courts to judge a contest of computers” in
which “there is no reliable way to determine who wins, or
even where the fnish line is.” Ante, at 37.
The majority fails to recognize that whether vote-dilution
claims require an undiluted benchmark is not up for debate.
If § 2 applies to single-member districting plans, courts can-
not dispense with an undiluted benchmark for comparison,
ascertained by an objective and workable method. Bossier
Page Proof Pending Publication
Parish School Bd., 520 U. S., at 480; Holder, 512 U. S., at 881
(plurality opinion). Of course, I would be the last person to
deny that defning the undiluted benchmark is diffcult. See
id., at 892 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (arguing that it “immerse[s]
the federal courts in a hopeless project of weighing questions
of political theory”). But the “myriad considerations” and
“[a]nswerless questions” the majority frets about, ante, at
35, 37, are inherent in the very enterprise of applying § 2
to single-member districts. Everything the majority says

map stacks up relative to the benchmark” (alteration omitted)). But its
rebuke is misplaced. The “totality of circumstances” means that courts
must consider all circumstances relevant to an issue. It does not mean
that they are forbidden to attempt to defne the substantive standard that
governs that issue. In arguing that a vote-dilution claim requires judging
a State's plan relative to an undiluted benchmark to be drawn from the
totality of circumstances—including, where probative, the results of dis-
tricting simulations—the State argues little more than what we have long
acknowledged. See Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S. 471,
480 (1997).
76 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

about the diffculty of defning the undiluted benchmark with
computer evidence applies with equal or greater force to the
task of defning it without such evidence. At their core, the
majority's workability concerns are an isolated demand for
rigor against the backdrop of a legal regime that has long
been “ `inherently standardless,' ” and must remain so until
the Court either discovers a principled and objective method
of identifying the undiluted benchmark, Holder, 512 U. S.,
at 885 (plurality opinion), or abandons this enterprise alto-
gether, see id., at 945 (opinion of Thomas, J.).
Ultimately, the majority has very little to say about the
appropriate benchmark. What little it does say suggests
that the majority sees no real alternative to the District
Court's proportional-control benchmark, though it appears
unwilling to say so outright. For example, in a nod to the
statutory text and its “equal openness” requirement, the ma-
jority asserts that “[a] district is not equally open . . . when
Page Proof Pending Publication
minority voters face—unlike their majority peers—bloc vot-
ing along racial lines, arising against the backdrop of sub-
stantial racial discrimination within the State, that renders
a minority vote unequal to a vote by a nonminority voter.”
Ante, at 25. But again, we have held that dilution cannot
be shown without an objective, undiluted benchmark, and
this verbiage offers no guidance for how to determine it.16
Later, the majority asserts that “the Gingles framework it-
self imposes meaningful constraints on proportionality.”
Ante, at 26. But the only constraint on proportionality
the majority articulates is that it is of ten di fficult to

16
To the extent it is any sort of answer to the benchmark question, it
tends inevitably toward proportionality. By equating a voting minority's
inability to win elections with a vote that has been “render[ed] . . . un-
equal,” ante, at 25, the majority assumes “that members of [a] minority
are denied a fully effective use of the franchise unless they are able to
control seats in an elected body.” Holder, 512 U. S., at 899 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). That is precisely the assumption that leads to the
proportional-control benchmark. See id., at 902, 937.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 77

Thomas, J., dissenting

achieve—which, quite obviously, is no principled limitation
at all. Ante, at 28–30.
Thus, the end result of the majority's reasoning is no dif-
ferent from the District Court's: The ultimate benchmark is
a racially proportional allocation of seats, and the main ques-
tion on which liability turns is whether a closer approxima-
tion to proportionality is possible under any reasonable ap-
plication of traditional districting criteria.17 This approach,
moreover, is consistent with how the majority describes the
role of plaintiffs' illustrative maps, as well as an unjustifed
practical asymmetry to which its rejection of computer evi-
dence gives rise. Courts are to “focu[s] . . . on the specifc
illustrative maps that a plaintiff adduces,” ante, at 25–26, by
which the majority means that courts should not “focu[s]”
on statistical evidence showing those maps to be outliers.
Thus, plaintiffs may use an algorithm to generate any num-
ber of maps that meet specifed districting criteria and a pre-
Page Proof Pending Publication
ferred racial target; then, they need only produce one of
those maps to “sho[w] it is possible that the State's map” is
dilutive. Ante, at 26 (emphasis in original). But the State
may not use algorithmic evidence to suggest that the plain-
tiffs' map is an unsuitable benchmark for comparison—not
even, apparently, if it can prove that the illustrative map

17
Indeed, the majority's attempt to defect this analysis only confrms
its accuracy. The majority stresses that its understanding of Gingles per-
mits the rejection of “plans that would bring States closer to proportional-
ity when those plans violate traditional districting criteria.” Ante, at
29, n. 4 (emphasis added). Justice Kavanaugh, similarly, defends Gin-
gles against the charge of “mandat[ing] a proportional number of majority-
minority districts” by emphasizing that it requires only the creation of
majority-minority districts that are compact and reasonably confgured.
Ante, at 43 (opinion concurring in part). All of this precisely tracks my
point: As construed by the District Court and the majority, § 2 mandates
an ever closer approach to proportional control that stops only when a
court decides that a further step in that direction would no longer be
consistent with any reasonable application of traditional districting
criteria.
78 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

is an outlier among “billion[s]” or “trillion[s]” of concededly
“adequate comparators.” Ante, at 35, 37; see also ante, at
36–37 (rejecting sampling algorithms). This arbitrary re-
striction amounts to a thumb on the scale for § 2 plaintiffs—
an unearned presumption that any “reasonable” map they
put forward constitutes a benchmark against which the
State's map can be deemed dilutive. And, once the compari-
son is framed in that way, the only workable rule of decision
is proportionality. See Holder, 512 U. S., at 941–943 (opinion
of Thomas, J.).
By affrming the District Court, the majority thus ap-
proves its benchmark of proportional control limited only by
feasibility, and it entrenches the most perverse tendencies of
our vote-dilution jurisprudence. It guarantees that courts
will continue to approach vote-dilution claims just as the Dis-
trict Court here did: with no principled way of determining
how many seats a minority “should” control and with a
strong temptation to bless every incremental step toward a
Page Proof Pending Publication
racially proportional allocation that plaintiffs can pass off as
consistent with any reasonable map.

III
As noted earlier, the Court has long recognized the need
to avoid interpretations of § 2 that “ `would unnecessarily in-
fuse race into virtually every redistricting, raising serious
constitutional questions.' ” Bartlett, 556 U. S., at 21 (plural-
ity opinion) (quoting LULAC, 548 U. S., at 446 (opinion of
Kennedy, J.)). Today, however, by approving the plaintiffs'
racially gerrymandered maps as reasonably confgured, re-
fusing to ground § 2 vote-dilution claims in a race-neutral
benchmark, and affrming a vote-dilution fnding that can
only be justifed by a benchmark of proportional control, the
majority holds, in substance, that race belongs in virtually
every redistricting. It thus drives headlong into the very
constitutional problems that the Court has long sought to
avoid. The result of this collision is unmistakable: If the
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 79

Thomas, J., dissenting

District Court's application of § 2 was correct as a statutory
matter, § 2 is unconstitutional as applied here.
Because the Constitution “restricts consideration of race
and the [Voting Rights Act] demands consideration of race,”
Abbott, 585 U. S., at –––, strict scrutiny is implicated wher-
ever, as here, § 2 is applied to require a State to adopt or
reject any districting plan on the basis of race. See Bart-
lett, 556 U. S., at 21–22 (plurality opinion). At this point, it
is necessary to confront directly one of the more confused
notions inhabiting our redistricting jurisprudence. In sev-
eral cases, we have “assumed” that compliance with § 2 of
the Voting Rights Act could be a compelling state interest,
before proceeding to reject race-predominant plans or dis-
tricts as insuffciently tailored to that asserted interest.
See, e. g., Wisconsin Legislature, 595 U. S., at 401–402; Cooper
v. Harris, 581 U. S. 285, 292 (2017); Shaw II, 517 U. S., at 915;
Miller, 515 U. S., at 921. But we have never applied this
assumption to uphold a districting plan that would otherwise
Page Proof Pending Publication
violate the Constitution, and the slightest refection on frst
principles should make clear why it would be problematic to
do so.18 The Constitution is supreme over statutes, not vice
versa. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 178 (1803).
Therefore, if complying with a federal statute would require
a State to engage in unconstitutional racial discrimination,
the proper conclusion is not that the statute excuses the
State's discrimination, but that the statute is invalid.
If Congress has any power at all to require States to sort
voters into congressional districts based on race, that power
must fow from its authority to “enforce” the Fourteenth and

18
In Bethune-Hill v. Virginia State Bd. of Elections, 580 U. S. 178
(2017), the Court upheld a race-predominant district based on the assumed
compelling interest of complying with § 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Id.,
at 193–196. There, the Court was explicit that it was still merely “assum-
[ing], without deciding,” that the asserted interest was compelling, as the
plaintiffs “d[id] not dispute that compliance with § 5 was a compelling in-
terest at the relevant time.” Id., at 193.
80 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

Fifteenth Amendments “by appropriate legislation.” Amdt.
14, § 5; Amdt. 15, § 2. Since Congress in 1982 replaced in-
tent with effects as the criterion of liability, however, “a vio-
lation of § 2 is no longer a fortiori a violation of ” either
Amendment. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S., at 482.
Thus, § 2 can be justifed only under Congress' power to
“enact reasonably prophylactic legislation to deter constitu-
tional harm.” Allen v. Cooper, 589 U. S. –––, ––– (2020) (al-
teration and internal quotation marks omitted); see City of
Boerne v. Flores, 521 U. S. 507, 517–529 (1997). Because
Congress' prophylactic-enforcement authority is “remedial,
rather than substantive,” “[t]here must be a congruence and
proportionality between the injury to be prevented or reme-
died and the means adopted to that end.” 19 Id., at 520.
Congress' chosen means, moreover, must “ `consist with the
letter and spirit of the constitution.' ” Shelby County v.
Holder, 570 U. S. 529, 555 (2013) (quoting McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421 (1819)); accord, Miller, 515
Page Proof Pending Publication
U. S., at 927.
Here, as with everything else in our vote-dilution jurispru-
dence, the task of sound analysis is encumbered by the lack
of clear principles defning § 2 liability in districting. It is
awkward to examine the “congruence” and “proportionality”
of a statutory rule whose very meaning exists in a perpetual
state of uncertainty. The majority makes clear, however,
that the primary factual predicate of a vote-dilution claim is
“bloc voting along racial lines” that results in majority-
preferred candidates defeating minority-preferred ones.
Ante, at 25; accord, Gingles, 478 U. S., at 48 (“The theoretical
basis for [vote-dilution claims] is that where minority and
majority voters consistently prefer different candidates, the
majority, by virtue of its numerical superiority, will regu-
19
While our congruence-and-proportionality cases have focused primar-
ily on the Fourteenth Amendment, they make clear that the same princi-
ples govern “Congress' parallel power to enforce the provisions of the
Fifteenth Amendment.” City of Boerne, 521 U. S., at 518.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 81

Thomas, J., dissenting

larly defeat the choices of minority voters”). And, as I have
shown, the remedial logic with which the District Court's
construction of § 2 addresses that “wrong ” rests on a
proportional-control benchmark limited only by feasibility.
Thus, the relevant statutory rule may be approximately
stated as follows: If voting is racially polarized in a jurisdic-
tion, and if there exists any more or less reasonably confg-
ured districting plan that would enable the minority group
to constitute a majority in a number of districts roughly pro-
portional to its share of the population, then the jurisdiction
must ensure that its districting plan includes that number
of majority-minority districts “or something quite close.” 20
582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1033. Thus construed and applied, § 2
is not congruent and proportional to any provisions of the
Reconstruction Amendments.
To determine the congruence and proportionality of a
measure, we must begin by “identify[ing] with some preci-
sion the scope of the constitutional right at issue.” Board
Page Proof Pending Publication
of Trustees of Univ. of Ala. v. Garrett, 531 U. S. 356, 365
(2001). The Reconstruction Amendments “forbi[d], so far as
civil and political rights are concerned, discrimination . . .
against any citizen because of his race,” ensuring that “[a]ll
citizens are equal before the law.” Gibson v. Mississippi,
162 U. S. 565, 591 (1896) (Harlan, J.). They dictate “that the
Government must treat citizens as individuals, not as simply
components of a racial, religious, sexual or national class.”
Miller, 515 U. S., at 911 (internal quotation marks omitted).
These principles are why the Constitution presumptively for-
bids race-predominant districting, “even for remedial pur-
poses.” Shaw I, 509 U. S., at 657.
These same principles foreclose a construction of the
Amendments that would entitle members of racial minori-
20
This formulation does not specifcally account for the District Court's
fndings under the Senate factors, which, as I have explained, lack any
traceable logical connection to the fnding of a districting wrong or the
need for a districting remedy.
82 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

ties, qua racial minorities, to have their preferred candidates
win elections. Nor do the Amendments limit the rights of
members of a racial majority to support their preferred can-
didates—regardless of whether minorities prefer different
candidates and of whether “the majority, by virtue of its nu-
merical superiority,” regularly prevails. Gingles, 478 U. S.,
at 48. Nor, fnally, do the Amendments establish a norm of
proportional control of elected offces on the basis of race.
See Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at 730–731 (plurality opin-
ion); Shaw I, 509 U. S., at 657. And these notions are not
merely foreign to the Amendments. Rather, they are radi-
cally inconsistent with the Amendments' command that gov-
ernment treat citizens as individuals and their “goal of a po-
litical system in which race no longer matters.” Ibid.
Those notions are, however, the values at the heart of § 2
as construed by the District Court and the majority. As
applied here, the statute effectively considers it a legal
Page Proof Pending Publication
wrong by the State if white Alabamians vote for candidates
from one political party at high enough rates, provided that
black Alabamians vote for candidates from the other party
at a still higher rate. And the statute remedies that wrong
by requiring the State to engage in race-based redistricting
in the direction of proportional control.
I am not certain that Congress' enforcement power could
ever justify a statute so at odds “ `with the letter and spirit
of the constitution.' ” Shelby County, 570 U. S., at 555. If
it could, it must be because Congress “identifed a history
and pattern” of actual constitutional violations that, for some
reason, required extraordinary prophylactic remedies. Gar-
rett, 531 U. S., at 368. But the legislative record of the 1982
amendments is devoid of any showing that might justify § 2's
blunt approximation of a “racial register for allocating repre-
sentation on the basis of race.” Holder, 512 U. S., at 908
(opinion of Thomas, J.). To be sure, the Senate Judiciary
Committee Report that accompanied the 1982 amendment
to the Voting Rights Act “listed many examples of what
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 83

Thomas, J., dissenting

the Committee took to be unconstitutional vote dilution.”
Brnovich, 594 U. S., at ––– (emphasis added). But the Re-
port also showed the Committee's fundamental lack of “con-
cern with whether” those examples refected the “inten-
tional” discrimination required “to raise a constitutional
issue.” Allen, 589 U. S., at –––. The Committee's “princi-
pal reason” for rejecting discriminatory purpose was simply
that it preferred an alternative legal standard; it thought
Mobile's intent test was “the wrong question,” and that
courts should instead ask whether a State's election laws of-
fered minorities “a fair opportunity to participate” in the po-
litical process. S. Rep. No. 97–417, p. 36.
As applied here, the amended § 2 thus falls on the wrong
side of “the line between measures that remedy or prevent
unconstitutional actions and measures that make a substan-
tive change in the governing law.” City of Boerne, 521
U. S., at 519. It replaces the constitutional right against in-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tentionally discriminatory districting with an amorphous
race-based right to a “fair” distribution of political power, a
“right” that cannot be implemented without requiring the
very evils the Constitution forbids.
If that alone were not fatal, § 2's “reach and scope” fur-
ther belie any congruence and proportionality between its
districting-related commands, on the one hand, and action-
able constitutional wrongs, on the other. Id., at 532. Its
“[s]weeping coverage ensures its intrusion at every level of
government” and in every electoral system. Ibid. It “has
no termination date or termination mechanism. ” Ibid.
Thus, the amended § 2 is not spatially or temporally “limited
to those cases in which constitutional violations [are] most
likely.” Id., at 533. Nor does the statute limit its reach to
“attac[k] a particular type” of electoral mechanism “with a
long history as a `notorious means to deny and abridge vot-
ing rights on racial grounds.' ” Ibid. (quoting South Caro-
lina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 355 (1966) (Black, J., con-
curring and dissenting)). In view of this “indiscriminate
84 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

scope,” “it simply cannot be said that `many of [the district-
ing plans] affected by the congressional enactment have a
signifcant likelihood of being unconstitutional.' ” Florida
Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings
Bank, 527 U. S. 627, 647 (1999) (quoting City of Boerne, 521
U. S., at 532).
Of course, under the logically unbounded totality-of-
circumstances inquiry, a court applying § 2 can always em-
broider its vote-dilution determination with fndings about
past or present unconstitutional discrimination. But this
possibility does nothing to heal either the fundamental con-
tradictions between § 2 and the Constitution or its extreme
overbreadth relative to actual constitutional wrongs. “A
generalized assertion of past discrimination” cannot justify
race-based redistricting, “because it provides no guidance for
a legislative body to determine the precise scope of the in-
jury it seeks to remedy.” Shaw II, 517 U. S., at 909 (internal
Page Proof Pending Publication
quotation marks omitted). To justify a statute tending to-
ward the proportional allocation of political power by race
throughout the Nation, it cannot be enough that a court can
recite some indefnite quantum of discrimination in the rele-
vant jurisdiction. If it were, courts “could uphold [race-
based] remedies that are ageless in their reach into the past,
and timeless in their ability to affect the future.” Wygant
v. Jackson Bd. of Ed., 476 U. S. 267, 276 (1986) (plurality
opinion). That logic “would effectively assure that race will
always be relevant in [redistricting], and that the ultimate
goal of eliminating entirely from governmental decision-
making such irrelevant factors as a human being's race will
never be achieved.” Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at 730
(plurality opinion) (alteration and internal quotation marks
omitted).
For an example of these baleful results, we need look no
further than the congressional districts at issue here. In
1992, Alabama and a group of § 2 plaintiffs, whom a federal
court chose to regard as the representatives “of all African-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 85

Thomas, J., dissenting

American citizens of the State of Alabama,” stipulated that
the State's black population was “ `suffciently compact and
contiguous to comprise a single member signifcant majority
(65% or more) African American Congressional district,' ”
and that, “ `[c]onsequently,' ” such a “ `district should be cre-
ated.' ” Wesch v. Hunt, 785 F. Supp. 1491, 1493, 1498 (SD
Ala.). Accepting that stipulation, the court reworked Dis-
trict 7 into an irregularly shaped supermajority-black dis-
trict—one that scooped up populous clusters of black voters
in the disparate urban centers of Birmingham and Montgom-
ery to connect them across a swath of largely majority-black
rural areas—without even “decid[ing] whether the creation
of a majority African-American district [was] mandated by
either § 2 or the Constitution.” Id., at 1499; see n. 7, supra.
It did not occur to the court that the Constitution might for-
bid such an extreme racial gerrymander, as it quite obviously
did. But, once District 7 had come into being as a racial
Page Proof Pending Publication
gerrymander thought necessary to satisfy § 2, it became an
all-but-immovable fxture of Alabama's districting scheme.
Now, 30 years later, the plaintiffs here demand that Ala-
bama carve up not two but three of its main urban centers
on the basis of race, and that it confgure those urban centers'
black neighborhoods with the outlying majority-black rural
areas so that black voters can control not one but two of the
State's seven districts. The Federal Judiciary now upholds
their demand—overriding the State's undoubted interest in
preserving the core of its existing districts, its plainly rea-
sonable desire to maintain the Gulf Coast region as a cohe-
sive political unit, and its persuasive arguments that a race-
neutral districting process would not produce anything like
the districts the plaintiffs seek. Our reasons for doing so
boil down to these: that the plaintiffs' proposed districts are
more or less within the vast universe of reasonable district-
ing outcomes; that Alabama's white voters do not support
the black minority's preferred candidates; that Alabama's ra-
cial climate, taken as a rarefed whole, crosses some indefn-
86 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

able line justifying our interference; and, last but certainly
not least, that black Alabamians are about two-sevenths of
the State's overall population.
By applying § 2 in this way to claims of this kind, we en-
courage a conception of politics as a struggle for power be-
tween “competing racial factions.” Shaw I, 509 U. S., at 657.
We indulge the pernicious tendency of assigning Americans
to “creditor” and “debtor race[s],” even to the point of redis-
tributing political power on that basis. Adarand Construc-
tors, Inc. v. Peña, 515 U. S. 200, 239 (1995) (Scalia, J., concur-
ring in part and concurring in judgment). We ensure that
the race-based redistricting we impose on Alabama now will
bear divisive consequences long into the future, just as the
initial creation of District 7 segregated Jefferson County for
decades and minted the template for crafting black “political
homelands” in Alabama. Holder, 512 U. S., at 905 (opinion
of Thomas, J.). We place States in the impossible position
Page Proof Pending Publication
of having to weigh just how much racial sorting is necessary
to avoid the “competing hazards” of violating § 2 and violat-
ing the Constitution. Abbott, 585 U. S., at ––– (internal quo-
tation marks omitted). We have even put ourselves in the
ridiculous position of “assuming” that compliance with a
statute can excuse disobedience to the Constitution. Worst
of all, by making it clear that there are political dividends to
be gained in the discovery of new ways to sort voters along
racial lines, we prolong immeasurably the day when the
“sordid business” of “divvying us up by race” is no more.
LULAC, 548 U. S., at 511 (Roberts, C. J., concurring in part,
concurring in judgment in part, and dissenting in part). To
the extent § 2 requires any of this, it is unconstitutional.
The majority defects this conclusion by appealing to two
of our older Voting Rights Act cases, City of Rome v. United
States, 446 U. S. 156 (1980), and South Carolina v. Katzen-
bach, 383 U. S. 301, that did not address § 2 at all and, indeed,
predate Congress' adoption of the results test. Ante, at 41.
That maneuver is untenable. Katzenbach upheld § 5's pre-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 87

Thomas, J., dissenting

clearance requirements, § 4(b)'s original coverage formula,
and other related provisions aimed at “a small number of
States and political subdivisions” where “systematic resist-
ance to the Fifteenth Amendment” had long been fagrant.
383 U. S., at 328; see also id., at 315–317 (describing the lim-
ited issues presented). Fourteen years later, City of Rome
upheld the 1975 Act extending § 5's preclearance provisions
for another seven years. See 446 U. S., at 172–173. The
majority's reliance on these cases to validate a statutory rule
not there at issue could make sense only if we assessed the
congruence and proportionality of the Voting Rights Act's
rules wholesale, without considering their individual fea-
tures, or if Katzenbach and City of Rome meant that Con-
gress has plenary power to enact whatever rules it chooses
to characterize as combating “discriminatory . . . effect[s].”
Ante, at 41 (internal quotation marks omitted). Neither
proposition makes any conceptual sense or is consistent with
Page Proof Pending Publication
our cases. See, e. g., Shelby County, 570 U. S., at 550–557
(holding the 2006 preclearance coverage formula unconstitu-
tional); Northwest Austin Municipal Util. Dist. No. One v.
Holder, 557 U. S. 193, 203 (2009) (emphasizing the distinct-
ness of §§ 2 and 5); City of Boerne, 521 U. S., at 533 (discuss-
ing City of Rome as a paradigm case of congruence-and-
proportionality review of remedial legislation); Miller, 515
U. S., at 927 (stressing that construing § 5 to require “that
States engage in presumptively unconstitutional race-based
districting” would raise “troubling and diffcult constitu-
tional questions,” notwithstanding City of Rome).
In fact, the majority's cases confrm the very limits on
Congress' enforcement powers that are fatal to the District
Court's construction of § 2. City of Rome, for example, im-
mediately after one of the sentences quoted by the majority,
explained the remedial rationale for its approval of the 1975
preclearance extension: “Congress could rationally have con-
cluded that, because electoral changes by jurisdictions with
a demonstrable history of intentional racial discrimination
88 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

in voting create the risk of purposeful discrimination, it
was proper to prohibit changes that have a discriminatory
impact.” 446 U. S., at 177 (emphasis added; footnote omit-
ted). The next section of City of Rome then separately ex-
amined and upheld the reasonableness of the extension's 7-
year time period. See id., at 181–182. City of Rome thus
stands for precisely the propositions for which City of
Boerne cited it: Congress may adopt “[p]reventive measures
. . . when there is reason to believe that many of the laws
affected by the congressional enactment have a signifcant
likelihood of being unconstitutional,” 521 U. S., at 532, partic-
ularly when it employs “termination dates, geographic re-
strictions, or egregious predicates” that “tend to ensure Con-
gress' means are proportionate to ends legitimate,” id., at
533; see also id., at 532–533 (analyzing Katzenbach in similar
terms); Shelby County, 570 U. S., at 535, 545–546 (same).
Again, however, the amended § 2 lacks any such salutary lim-
iting principles; it is unbounded in time, place, and subject
Page Proof Pending Publication
matter, and its districting-related commands have no nexus
to any likely constitutional wrongs.
In short, as construed by the District Court, § 2 does not
remedy or deter unconstitutional discrimination in district-
ing in any way, shape, or form. On the contrary, it requires
it, hijacking the districting process to pursue a goal that has
no legitimate claim under our constitutional system: the pro-
portional allocation of political power on the basis of race.
Such a statute “cannot be considered remedial, preventive
legislation,” and the race-based redistricting it would com-
mand cannot be upheld under the Constitution. City of
Boerne, 521 U. S., at 532.21

21
Justice Kavanaugh, at least, recognizes that § 2's constitutional foot-
ing is problematic, for he agrees that “race-based redistricting cannot ex-
tend indefnitely into the future.” Ante, at 45 (opinion concurring in
part). Nonetheless, Justice Kavanaugh votes to sustain a system of
institutionalized racial discrimination in districting—under the aegis of a
statute that applies nationwide and has no expiration date—and thus to
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 89

Thomas, J., dissenting

IV
These cases are not close. The plaintiffs did not prove
that Alabama's districting plan “impose[s] or applie[s]” any
“voting qualifcation or prerequisite to voting or standard,
practice, or procedure” that effects “a denial or abridgement
of the[ir] right . . . to vote on account of race or color.”
§ 10301(a). Nor did they prove that Alabama's congressional
districts “are not equally open to participation” by black Ala-
bamians. § 10301(b). The plaintiffs did not even prove that
it is possible to achieve two majority-black districts without
resorting to a racial gerrymander. The most that they can
be said to have shown is that sophisticated mapmakers can
proportionally allocate Alabama's congressional districts
based on race in a way that exceeds the Federal Judiciary's
ability to recognize as a racial gerrymander with the naked
eye. The District Court held that this showing, plus racially
polarized voting and its gestalt view of Alabama's racial cli-
Page Proof Pending Publication
mate, was enough to require the State to redraw its district-
ing plan on the basis of race. If that is the benchmark
for vote dilution under § 2, then § 2 is nothing more than a
racial entitlement to roughly proportional control of elective
offces—limited only by feasibility—wherever different racial
groups consistently prefer different candidates.
If that is what § 2 means, the Court should hold that it is
unconstitutional. If that is not what it means, but § 2 ap-
plies to districting, then the Court should hold that vote-
dilution challenges require a race-neutral benchmark that
bears no resemblance to unconstitutional racial registers.
On the other hand, if the Court believes that fnding a race-
neutral benchmark is as impossible as much of its rhetoric
suggests, it should hold that § 2 cannot be applied to single-
member districting plans for want of an “objective and
prolong the “lasting harm to our society” caused by the use of racial classi-
fcations in the allocation of political power. Shaw I, 509 U. S., at 657. I
cannot agree with that approach. The Constitution no more tolerates this
discrimination today than it will tolerate it tomorrow.
90 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Thomas, J., dissenting

workable standard for choosing a reasonable benchmark.”
Holder, 512 U. S., at 881 (plurality opinion). Better yet, it
could adopt the correct interpretation of § 2 and hold that a
single-member districting plan is not a “voting qualifcation,”
a “prerequisite to voting,” or a “standard, practice, or proce-
dure,” as the Act uses those terms. One way or another,
the District Court should be reversed.
The majority goes to great lengths to decline all of these
options and, in doing so, to fossilize all of the worst aspects
of our long-deplorable vote-dilution jurisprudence. The ma-
jority recites Gingles' shopworn phrases as if their meaning
were self-evident, and as if it were not common knowledge
that they have spawned intractable diffculties of defnition
and application. It goes out of its way to reaffrm § 2's appli-
cability to single-member districting plans both as a pur-
ported original matter and on highly exaggerated stare
decisis grounds. It virtually ignores Alabama's primary
Page Proof Pending Publication
argument—that, whatever the benchmark is, it must be race
neutral—choosing, instead, to quixotically joust with an
imaginary adversary. In the process, it uses special plead-
ing to close the door on the hope cherished by some thought-
ful observers, see Gonzalez, 535 F. 3d, at 599–600, that com-
putational redistricting methods might offer a principled,
race-neutral way out of the thicket Gingles carried us into.
Finally, it dismisses grave constitutional questions with an
insupportably broad holding based on demonstrably inappo-
site cases.22
I fnd it diffcult to understand these maneuvers except as
proceeding from a perception that what the District Court
did here is essentially no different from what many courts

22
The Court does not address whether § 2 contains a private right of
action, an issue that was argued below but was not raised in this Court.
See Brnovich v. Democratic National Committee, 594 U. S. –––, ––– (2021)
(Gorsuch, J., concurring).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 91

Thomas, J., dissenting

have done for decades under this Court's superintendence,
joined with a sentiment that it would be unthinkable to dis-
turb that approach to the Voting Rights Act in any way. I
share the perception, but I cannot understand the sentiment.
It is true that, “under our direction, federal courts [have
been] engaged in methodically carving the country into ra-
cially designated electoral districts” for decades now.
Holder, 512 U. S., at 945 (opinion of Thomas, J.). But that
fact should inspire us to repentance, not resignation. I am
even more convinced of the opinion that I formed 29 years
ago:
“In my view, our current practice should not continue.
Not for another Term, not until the next case, not for
another day. The disastrous implications of the policies
we have adopted under the Act are too grave; the dis-
sembling in our approach to the Act too damaging to
the credibility of the Federal Judiciary. The `inherent
Page Proof Pending Publication
tension'—indeed, I would call it an irreconcilable con-
fict—between the standards we have adopted for evalu-
ating vote dilution claims and the text of the Voting
Rights Act would itself be suffcient in my view to war-
rant overruling the interpretation of § 2 set out in Gin-
gles. When that obvious confict is combined with the
destructive effects our expansive reading of the Act has
had in involving the Federal Judiciary in the project of
dividing the Nation into racially segregated electoral
districts, I can see no reasonable alternative to abandon-
ing our current unfortunate understanding of the Act.”
Id., at 944.
I respectfully dissent.
92 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Appendix to opinion of Thomas, J.

Page Proof Pending Publication
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 93

Appendix to opinion of Thomas, J.

Page Proof Pending Publication
94 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Appendix to opinion of Thomas, J.

Page Proof Pending Publication
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 95

Alito, J., dissenting

Justice Alito, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins,
dissenting.
Based on a flawed understanding of the framework
adopted in Thornburg v. Gingles, 478 U. S. 30 (1986), the
Court now holds that the congressional districting map
adopted by the Alabama Legislature violates § 2 of the Vot-
ing Rights Act. Like the Court, I am happy to apply Gin-
gles in these cases. But I would interpret that precedent in
a way that heeds what § 2 actually says, and I would take
constitutional requirements into account. When the Gingles
framework is viewed in this way, it is apparent that the deci-
sions below must be vacated.

I
A
Gingles marked the Court's first encounter with the
Page Proof Pending Publication
amended version of § 2 that Congress enacted in 1982, and
the Court's opinion set out an elaborate framework that has
since been used to analyze a variety of § 2 claims. Under
that framework, a plaintiff must satisfy three “precondi-
tions.” Id., at 50. As summarized in more recent opinions,
they are as follows:
“First, [the] `minority group' [whose interest the plaintiff
represents] must be `suffciently large and geographi-
cally compact to constitute a majority' in some reason-
ably confgured legislative district. Second, the minor-
ity group must be `politically cohesive.' And third, a
district's white majority must `vote[ ] suffciently as a
bloc' to usually `defeat the minority's preferred candi-
date.' ” Cooper v. Harris, 581 U. S. 285, 301–302 (2017)
(citations omitted).

See also Wisconsin Legislature v. Wisconsin Elections
Comm'n, 595 U. S. 398, 402 (2022) (per curiam); Merrill v.
96 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Alito, J., dissenting

Milligan, 595 U. S. –––, ––– (2022) (Kagan, J., dissenting
from grant of applications for stays).
If a § 2 plaintiff can satisfy all these preconditions, the
court must then decide whether, based on the totality of the
circumstances, the plaintiff's right to vote was diluted. See
Gingles, 478 U. S., at 46–48, 79. And to aid in that inquiry,
Gingles approved consideration of a long list of factors set
out in the Senate Judiciary Committee's Majority Report
on the 1982 VRA amendments. Id., at 44–45 (citing S. Rep.
No. 97–417, pp. 28–30 (1982)).
B
My fundamental disagreement with the Court concerns
the frst Gingles precondition. In cases like these, where
the claim is that § 2 requires the creation of an additional
majority-minority district, the frst precondition means that
the plaintiff must produce an additional illustrative majority-
minority district that is “reasonably confgured.” Cooper,
Page Proof Pending Publication
581 U. S., at 301; Wisconsin Legislature, 595 U. S., at 402;
see also Gingles, 478 U. S., at 50.
The Court's basic error is that it misunderstands what it
means for a district to be “reasonably confgured.” Our
cases make it clear that “reasonably confgured” is not a syn-
onym for “compact.” We have explained that the frst pre-
condition also takes into account other traditional districting
criteria like attempting to avoid the splitting of political sub-
divisions and “communities of interest.” League of United
Latin American Citizens v. Perry, 548 U. S. 399, 433–434
(2006) (LULAC).
To its credit, the Court recognizes that compactness is not
enough and that a district is not reasonably confgured if it
fouts other “traditional districting criteria.” Ante, at 18.
At various points in its opinion it names quite a few: mini-
mizing the splitting of counties and other political subdivi-
sions, keeping “communities of interest” together where pos-
sible, and avoiding the creation of new districts that require
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 97

Alito, J., dissenting

two incumbents to run against each other. Ante, at 20, 34–
35. In addition, the Court acknowledges that a district is
not “reasonably confgured” if it does not comport with the
Equal Protection Clause's one-person, one-vote requirement.
Ante, at 35. But the Court fails to explain why compliance
with “traditional districting criteria” matters under § 2 or
why the only relevant equal protection principle is the one-
person, one-vote requirement. If the Court had attempted
to answer these questions, the defect in its understanding of
the frst Gingles precondition would be unmistakable.
To explain this, I begin with what is probably the most
frequently mentioned traditional districting criterion and
ask why it should matter under § 2 whether a proposed
majority-minority district is “compact.” Neither the Voting
Rights Act (VRA) nor the Constitution imposes a compact-
ness requirement. The Court notes that we have struck
down bizarrely shaped districts, ante, at 27–28, but we did
Page Proof Pending Publication
not do that for esthetic reasons. Compactness in and of it-
self is not a legal requirement—or even necessarily an es-
thetic one. (Some may fnd fancifully shaped districts more
pleasing to the eye than boring squares.)
The same is true of departures from other traditional dis-
tricting criteria. Again, nothing in the Constitution or the
VRA demands compliance with these criteria. If a whimsi-
cal state legislature cavalierly disregards county and munici-
pal lines and communities of interest, draws weirdly shaped
districts, departs radically from a prior map solely for the
purpose of change, and forces many incumbents to run
against each other, neither the Constitution nor the VRA
would make any of that illegal per se. Bizarrely shaped dis-
tricts and other marked departures from traditional district-
ing criteria matter because mapmakers usually heed these
criteria, and when it is evident that they have not done so,
there is reason to suspect that something untoward—spe-
cifcally, unconstitutional racial gerrymandering—is afoot.
98 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Alito, J., dissenting

See, e. g., Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630, 643–644 (1993); Bush
v. Vera, 517 U. S. 952, 979 (1996) (plurality opinion); cf.
LULAC, 548 U. S., at 433–435.
Conspicuous violations of traditional districting criteria
constitute strong circumstantial evidence of unconstitution-
ality. And when it is shown that the confguration of a dis-
trict is attributable predominantly to race, that is more than
circumstantial evidence that the district is unlawful. That
is direct evidence of illegality because, as we have often held,
race may not “predominate” in the drawing of district lines.
See, e. g., Cooper, 581 U. S., at 292; Bethune-Hill v. Virginia
State Bd. of Elections, 580 U. S. 178, 191–192 (2017); Shaw v.
Hunt, 517 U. S. 899, 906–907 (1996) (Shaw II); Miller v. John-
son, 515 U. S. 900, 920 (1995).1
Because non-predominance is a longstanding and vital fea-
ture of districting law, it must be honored in a Gingles plain-
tiff's illustrative district. If race predominated in the cre-
ation of such a district, the plaintiff has failed to satisfy both
Page Proof Pending Publication
our precedent, which requires “reasonably confgured” dis-
tricts, and the terms of § 2, which demand equal openness.
Two Terms ago, we engaged in a close analysis of the text of
§ 2 and explained that its “key requirement” is that the polit-
ical processes leading to nomination or election must be
“ `equally open to participation' by members of a protected
class.” Brnovich v. Democratic National Committee, 594
U. S. –––, ––– (2021) (quoting 52 U. S. C. § 10301(b); emphasis
deleted). “[E]qual openness,” we stressed, must be our
“touchstone” in interpreting and applying that provision.
594 U. S., at –––.
When the race of one group is the predominant factor in
the creation of a district, that district goes beyond making
the electoral process equally open to the members of the
group in question. It gives the members of that group an
1
Alabama's districting guidelines explicitly incorporate this non-
predominance requirement. See Singleton v. Merrill, 582 F. Supp. 3d
924, 1036 (ND Ala. 2022).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 99

Alito, J., dissenting

advantage that § 2 does not require and that the Constitution
may forbid. And because the creation of majority-minority
districts is something of a zero-sum endeavor, giving an ad-
vantage to one minority group may disadvantage others.

C
What all this means is that a § 2 plaintiff who claims that
a districting map violates § 2 because it fails to include an
additional majority-minority district must show at the outset
that such a district can be created without making race the
predominant factor in its creation. The plaintiff bears both
the burden of production and the burden of persuasion on
this issue, see Voinovich v. Quilter, 507 U. S. 146, 155–156
(1993); White v. Regester, 412 U. S. 755, 766 (1973), but
a plaintiff can satisfy the former burden simply by adduc-
ing evidence—in any acceptable form—that race did not
predominate.
Page Proof Pending Publication
A plaintiff need not offer computer-related evidence.
Once upon a time, legislative maps were drawn without
using a computer, and nothing prevents a § 2 plaintiff from
taking this old-school approach in creating an illustrative dis-
trict. See, e. g., M. Altman, K. McDonald, & M. McDonald,
From Crayons to Computers: The Evolution of Computer
Use in Redistricting, 23 Soc. Sci. Computer Rev. 334, 335–
336 (2005). In that event, the plaintiff can simply call upon
the mapmaker to testify about the process he or she used
and the role, if any, that race played in that process. The
defendant may seek to refute that testimony in any way that
the rules of civil procedure and evidence allow.
If, as will often be the case today, a § 2 plaintiff's map-
maker uses a computer program, the expert can testify about
the weight, if any, that the program gives to race. The
plaintiff will presumably argue that any role assigned to race
was not predominant, and the defendant can contest this by
cross-examining the plaintiff's expert, seeking the actual
program in discovery, and calling its own expert to testify
100 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Alito, J., dissenting

about the program's treatment of race. After this, the trial
court will be in a position to determine whether the program
gave race a “predominant” role.
This is an entirely workable scheme. It does not obligate
either party to offer computer evidence, and it minimizes the
likelihood of a clash between what § 2 requires and what the
Constitution forbids. We have long assumed that § 2 is con-
sistent with the Constitution. See, e. g., Cooper, 581 U. S.,
at 301 (assuming States have a compelling interest in com-
plying with § 2); Shaw II, 517 U. S., at 915 (same); Vera, 517
U. S., at 977 (plurality opinion) (same). But that cannot
mean that every conceivable interpretation of § 2 is constitu-
tional, and I do not understand the majority's analysis of
Alabama's constitutional claim to suggest otherwise. Ante,
at 41–42; ante, at 45 (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part).
Our cases make it perfectly clear that using race as a “pre-
dominant factor” in drawing legislative districts is unconsti-
tutional unless the stringent requirements of strict scrutiny
Page Proof Pending Publication
can be satisfed,2 and therefore if § 2 can be found to require
the adoption of an additional majority-minority district that
was created under a process that assigned race a “predomi-
nant” role, § 2 and the Constitution would be headed for a
collision.
II
When the meaning of a “reasonably confgured” district is
properly understood, it is apparent that the decisions below
must be vacated and that the cases must be remanded for
the application of the proper test. In its analysis of whether
the plaintiffs satisfed the frst Gingles precondition, the
District Court gave much attention to some traditional dis-
tricting criteria—specifcally, compactness and avoiding the
splitting of political subdivisions and communities of inter-

2
Although our cases have posited that racial predominance may be ac-
ceptable if strict scrutiny is satisfed, the Court does not contend that it
is satisfed here.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 101

Alito, J., dissenting

est—but it failed to consider whether the plaintiffs had
shown that their illustrative districts were created without
giving race a “predominant role.” Singleton v. Merrill, 582
F. Supp. 3d 924, 1008–1016 (ND Ala. 2022). For this reason,
the District Court's § 2 analysis was defcient.
It is true that the District Court addressed the question
of race-predominance when it discussed and rejected the
State's argument that the plaintiffs' maps violated the Equal
Protection Clause, but the court's understanding of predomi-
nance was deeply fawed. The court began this part of its
opinion with this revealing statement:
“Dr. Duchin and Mr. Cooper [plaintiffs' experts] testifed
that they prioritized race only for the purpose of de-
termining and to the extent necessary to determine
whether it was possible for the Milligan plaintiffs and
the Caster plaintiffs to state a Section Two claim. As
soon as they determined the answer to that question,
Page Proof Pending Publication
they assigned greater weight to other traditional redis-
tricting criteria.” Id., at 1029–1030 (emphasis added).

This statement overlooks the obvious point that by “priori-
tiz[ing] race” at the outset, Dr. Duchin and Mr. Cooper gave
race a predominant role.
The next step in the District Court's analysis was even
more troubling. The court wrote, “Dr. Duchin's testimony
that she considered two majority-Black districts as `non-
negotiable' does not” show that race played a predominant
role in her districting process. Id., at 1030. But if achiev-
ing a certain objective is “non-negotiable,” then achieving
that objective will necessarily play a predominant role.
Suppose that a couple are relocating to the Washington,
D. C., metropolitan area, and suppose that one says to the
other, “I'm fexible about where we live, but it has to be in
Maryland. That's non-negotiable.” Could anyone say that
fnding a home in Maryland was not a “predominant” factor
in the couple's search? Or suppose that a person looking for
102 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Alito, J., dissenting

a fight tells a travel agent, “It has to be non-stop. That's
non-negotiable.” Could it be said that the number of stops
between the city of origin and the destination was not a “pre-
dominant” factor in the search for a good fight? The obvi-
ous answer to both these questions is no, and the same is
true about the role of race in the creation of a new district.
If it is “non-negotiable” that the district be majority black,
then race is given a predominant role.
The District Court wrapped up this portion of its opinion
with a passage that highlighted its misunderstanding of the
frst Gingles precondition. The court thought that a § 2
plaintiff cannot proffer a reasonably confgured majority-
minority district without frst attempting to see if it is possi-
ble to create such a district—that is, by frst making the
identifcation of such a district “non-negotiable.” 582 F.
Supp. 3d, at 1030. But that is simply not so. A plaintiff's
expert can frst create maps using only criteria that do not
Page Proof Pending Publication
give race a predominant role and then determine how many
contain the desired number of majority-minority districts.
One fnal observation about the District Court's opinion is
in order. The opinion gives substantial weight to the dis-
parity between the percentage of majority-black House dis-
tricts in the legislature's plan (14%) and the percentage of
black voting-age Alabamians (27%), while the percentage in
the plaintiffs' plan (29%) came closer to that 27% mark. See,
e. g., id., at 946, 1016, 1018, 1025–1026; see also id., at 958–
959, 969, 976, 982, 991–992, 996–997. Section 2 of the VRA,
however, states expressly that no group has a right to repre-
sentation “in numbers equal to their proportion in the popu-
lation.” 52 U. S. C. § 10301(b). This provision was a critical
component of the compromise that led to the adoption of the
1982 amendments, as the Court unanimously agreed two
Terms ago. See Brnovich, 594 U. S., at –––, and n. 14; id.,
at –––, n. 6 (Kagan, J., dissenting). The District Court's
reasoning contravened this statutory proviso. See ante, at
55–56, 71–73 (Thomas, J., dissenting).
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 103

Alito, J., dissenting

III
The Court spends much of its opinion attacking what it
takes to be the argument that Alabama has advanced in this
litigation. I will not debate whether the Court's character-
ization of that argument is entirely correct, but as applied to
the analysis I have just set out, the Court's criticisms miss
the mark.
A
The major theme of this part of the Court's opinion is that
Alabama's argument, in effect, is that “Gingles must be over-
ruled.” Ante, at 33. But as I wrote at the beginning of
this opinion, I would decide these cases under the Gingles
framework. We should recognize, however, that the Gingles
framework is not the same thing as a statutory provision,
and it is a mistake to regard it as such. National Pork Pro-
ducers Council v. Ross, 598 U. S. 356, 373 (2023) (“ `[T]he
language of an opinion is not always to be parsed as though
Page Proof Pending Publication
we were dealing with language of a statute' ” (quoting Reiter
v. Sonotone Corp., 442 U. S. 330, 341 (1979))). In applying
that framework today, we should keep in mind subsequent
developments in our case law.
One important development has been a sharpening of the
methodology used in interpreting statutes. Gingles was de-
cided at a time when the Court's statutory interpretation
decisions sometimes paid less attention to the actual text of
the statute than to its legislative history, and Gingles falls
into that category. The Court quoted § 2 but then moved
briskly to the Senate Report. See 478 U. S., at 36–37, 43,
and n. 7. Today, our statutory interpretation decisions focus
squarely on the statutory text. National Assn. of Mfrs. v.
Department of Defense, 583 U. S. 109, 127 (2018); Puerto
Rico v. Franklin Cal. Tax-Free Trust, 579 U. S. 115, 125
(2016); cf. Brnovich, 594 U. S., at –––. And as we held in
Brnovich, “[t]he key requirement” set out in the text of § 2
is that a State's electoral process must be “ `equally open' ”
104 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Alito, J., dissenting

to members of all racial groups. Id., at –––. The Gingles
framework should be interpreted in a way that gives effect
to this standard.
Another development that we should not ignore concerns
our case law on racial predominance. Post-Gingles decisions
like Miller, 515 U. S., at 920, Shaw II, 517 U. S., at 906–907,
and Vera, 517 U. S., at 979 (plurality opinion), made it clear
that it is unconstitutional to use race as a “predominant” fac-
tor in legislative districting. “[W]hen statutory language is
susceptible of multiple interpretations, a court may shun an
interpretation that raises serious constitutional doubts and
instead may adopt an alternative that avoids those prob-
lems.” Jennings v. Rodriguez, 583 U. S. –––, ––– (2018).
This same principle logically applies with even greater force
when we interpret language in one of our prior opinions. It
therefore goes without question that we should apply the
Gingles framework in a way that does not set up a confronta-
Page Proof Pending Publication
tion between § 2 and the Constitution, and understanding the
frst Gingles precondition in the way I have outlined achieves
that result.3
B
The Court's subsidiary criticisms of Alabama's arguments
are likewise inapplicable to my analysis. The Court sug-
gests that the “centerpiece” of Alabama's argument regard-
ing the role race can permissibly play in a plaintiff's illustra-
tive map seeks the imposition of “a new rule.” Ante, at 23,
30. But I would require only what our cases already de-

3
The second and third Gingles preconditions, which concern racially po-
larized voting, cannot contribute to avoiding a clash between § 2 and the
Constitution over racial predominance in the drawing of lines. Those pre-
conditions do not concern the drawing of lines in plaintiffs' maps, and in
any event, because voting in much of the South is racially polarized, they
are almost always satisfed anyway. Alabama does not contest that they
are satisfed here.
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 105

Alito, J., dissenting

mand: that all legislative districts be produced without giv-
ing race a “predominant” role.4
The Court maintains that Alabama's benchmark scheme
would be unworkable because of the huge number of differ-
ent race-neutral maps that could be drawn. As the Court
notes, there are apparently numerous “competing metrics on
the issue of compactness” alone, and each race-neutral com-
puter program may assign different values to each tradi-
tional districting criterion. Ante, at 35 (internal quotation
marks omitted).
My analysis does not create such problems. If a § 2 plain-
tiff chooses to use a computer program to create an illustra-
tive district, the court need ask only whether that program
assigned race a predominant role.
The Court argues that Alabama's focus on race-neutral
maps cannot be squared with a totality-of-the-circumstances
test because “Alabama suggests there is only one `circum-
Page Proof Pending Publication
stance[ ]' that matters—how the State's map stacks up rela-
tive to the benchmark” maps. Ante, at 26. My analysis,
however, simply follows the Gingles framework, under which
a court must frst determine whether a § 2 plaintiff has satis-
fed three “preconditions” before moving on to consider the
remainder of relevant circumstances. See Growe v. Emi-
son, 507 U. S. 25, 40–41 (1993) (unless plaintiffs establish all
three preconditions, there “neither has been a wrong nor can
be a remedy”).

4
The Court appears to contend that it does not matter if race predomi-
nated in the drawing of these maps because the maps could have been
drawn without race predominating. See ante, at 34–35, n. 7. But of
course, many policies could be selected for race-neutral reasons. They
nonetheless must be assessed under the relevant standard for intentional
reliance on race if their imposition was in fact motivated by race. See,
e. g., Hunter v. Underwood, 471 U. S. 222, 227–231 (1985); Arlington
Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp., 429 U. S. 252, 264–
266 (1977); Washington v. Davis, 426 U. S. 229, 241–248 (1976).
106 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Alito, J., dissenting

IV
As noted, I would vacate and remand for the District
Court to apply the correct understanding of Gingles in the
frst instance. Such a remand would require the District
Court to determine whether the plaintiffs have shown that
their illustrative maps did not give race a predominant role,
and I will therefore comment briefy on my understanding of
the relevant evidence in the record as it now stands.

A
In my view, there is strong evidence that race played a
predominant role in the production of the plaintiffs' illustra-
tive maps and that it is most unlikely that a map with more
than one majority-black district could be created without
giving race such a role. An expert hired by the Milligan
plaintiffs, Dr. Kosuke Imai, used a computer algorithm to
create 30,000 potential maps, none of which contained two
Page Proof Pending Publication
majority-black districts. See 2 App. 571–572; Supp. App. 59,
72. In fact, in 20,000 of those simulations, Dr. Imai inten-
tionally created one majority-minority district, and yet even
with one majority-minority district guaranteed as a baseline,
none of those 20,000 attempts produced a second one. See
2 App. 571–572; Supp. App. 72.
Similarly, Dr. Moon Duchin, another expert hired by the
Milligan plaintiffs, opined that “it is hard to draw two
majority-black districts by accident.” 2 App. 714. Dr.
Duchin also referred to a study where she generated two
million maps of potential district confgurations in Alabama,
none of which contained a second majority-minority district.
Id., at 710. And the frst team of trained mapmakers that
plaintiff Milligan consulted was literally unable to draw a
two-majority-black-district map, even when they tried. Id.,
at 511–512. Milligan concluded at the time that the feat was
impossible. Id., at 512.
The majority quibbles about the strength of this evidence,
protesting that Dr. Imai's studies failed to include as con-
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 107

Alito, J., dissenting

trols certain redistricting criteria and that Dr. Duchin's two-
million-map study was based on 2010 census data, see ante,
at 34–35, and nn. 6–7, but this is unconvincing for several
reasons. It is plaintiffs' burden to produce evidence and sat-
isfy the Gingles preconditions, so if their experts' maps were
defcient, that is no strike against Alabama. And the racial
demographics of the State changed little between 2010 and
2020, Supp. App. 82, which is presumably why Dr. Duchin
herself raised the older study in answering questions about
her work in this litigation, see 2 App. 710. If it was impossi-
ble to draw two such districts in 2010, it surely at least re-
quires a great deal of intentional effort now.
The Court suggests that little can be inferred from Dr.
Duchin's two-million-map study because two million maps
are not that many in comparison to the “trillion trillions”
maps that are possible. See ante, at 36–37. In making this
argument, the Court relies entirely on an amicus brief
Page Proof Pending Publication
submitted by three computational redistricting experts in
support of the appellees. See Brief for Computational Re-
districting Experts 2, 6, n. 7. These experts' argument con-
cerns a complicated statistical issue, and I think it is unwise
for the Court to make their argument part of our case law
based solely on this brief. By the time this amicus brief
was submitted, the appellants had already fled their main
brief, and it was too late for any experts with contrary views
to submit an amicus brief in support of appellants. Com-
puter simulations are widely used today to make predictions
about many important matters, and I would not place strin-
gent limits on their use in VRA litigation without being quite
sure of our ground. If the cases were remanded, the parties
could take up this issue if they wished and call experts to
support their positions on the extent to which the two million
maps in the study are or can be probative of the full universe
of maps.
In sum, based on my understanding of the current record,
I am doubtful that the plaintiffs could get by the frst Gingles
108 ALLEN v. MILLIGAN

Alito, J., dissenting

precondition, but I would let the District Court sort this
matter out on remand.
B
Despite the strong evidence that two majority-minority
districts cannot be drawn without singular emphasis on race,
a plurality nonetheless concludes that race did not predomi-
nate in the drawing of the plaintiffs' illustrative maps. See
ante, at 30–33. Their conclusion, however, rests on a faulty
view of what non-predominance means.
The plurality's position seems to be that race does not pre-
dominate in the creation of a districting map so long as the
map does not violate other traditional districting criteria
such as compactness, contiguity, equally populated districts,
minimizing county splits, etc. Ibid. But this conclusion is
irreconcilable with our cases. In Miller, for instance, we
acknowledged that the particular district at issue was not
“shape[d] . . . bizarre[ly] on its face,” but we nonetheless held
Page Proof Pending Publication
that race predominated because of the legislature's “overrid-
ing desire to assign black populations” in a way that would
create an additional “majority-black district.” 515 U. S.,
at 917.
Later cases drove home the point that conformity with
traditional districting principles does not necessarily mean
that a district was created without giving race a predomi-
nant role. In Cooper, we held that once it is shown that race
was “ `the overriding reason' ” for the selection of a particu-
lar map, “a further showing of `inconsistency between the
enacted plan and traditional redistricting criteria' is unneces-
sary to a fnding of racial predominance.” 581 U. S., at 301,
n. 3 (quoting Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 190). We noted that
the contrary argument was “foreclosed almost as soon as it
was raised in this Court.” Cooper, 581 U. S., at 301, n. 3;
see also Vera, 517 U. S., at 966 (plurality opinion) (race may
still predominate even if “traditional districting principle[s]
do correlate to some extent with the district's layout”).
“Traditional redistricting principles . . . are numerous and
 Cite as: 599 U. S. 1 (2023) 109

Alito, J., dissenting

malleable. . . . By deploying those factors in various combina-
tions and permutations, a [mapmaker] could construct a
plethora of potential maps that look consistent with tradi-
tional, race-neutral principles.” Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S.,
at 190. Here, a plurality allows plaintiffs to do precisely
what we warned against in Bethune-Hill.
The plurality's analysis of predominance contravenes our
precedents in another way. We have been sensitive to the
gravity of “ `trapp[ing]' ” States “ `between the competing
hazards of liability' ” imposed by the Constitution and the
VRA. Id., at 196 (quoting Vera, 517 U. S., at 977). The
VRA's demand that States not unintentionally “dilute” the
votes of particular groups must be reconciled with the Con-
stitution's demand that States generally avoid intentional
augmentation of the political power of any one racial group
(and thus the diminution of the power of other groups). The
plurality's predominance analysis shreds that prudential con-
cern. If a private plaintiff can demonstrate § 2 liability
Page Proof Pending Publication
based on the production of a map that the State has every
reason to believe it could not constitutionally draw, we have
left “state legislatures too little breathing room” and virtu-
ally guaranteed that they will be on the losing end of a fed-
eral court's judgment. Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 196.
* * *
The Court's treatment of Gingles is inconsistent with the
text of § 2, our precedents on racial predominance, and the
fundamental principle that States are almost always prohib-
ited from basing decisions on race. Today's decision unnec-
essarily sets the VRA on a perilous and unfortunate path.
I respectfully dissent.
 Reporter’s Note

The attached opinion has been revised to refect the usual publication
and citation style of the United States Reports. The revised pagination
makes available the offcial United States Reports citation in advance of
publication. The syllabus has been prepared by the Reporter of Decisions
for the convenience of the reader and constitutes no part of the opinion of
the Court. A list of counsel who argued or fled briefs in this case, and
Page Proof Pending Publication
who were members of the bar of this Court at the time this case was
argued, has been inserted following the syllabus. Other revisions may
include adjustments to formatting, captions, citation form, and any errant
punctuation. The following additional edits were made:

p. 6, line 16: “numbers” is deleted
p. 14, line 8 from bottom: “Hillard” is replaced with “Hilliard”
p. 27, line 10 from bottom: “widely” is inserted after “otherwise”
p. 47, line 5: “prerequsite” is replaced with “prerequisite”
p. 90, line 5: “prerequsite” is replaced with “prerequisite”


=== SCOTUS Slip Opinion: 598us2r23_c0n2 ===

PRELIMINARY PRINT

Volume 598 U. S. Part 2
Pages 508–593

OFFICIAL REPORTS
OF

THE SUPREME COURT
May 18, 2023

Page Proof Pending Publication

REBECCA A. WOMELDORF
reporter of decisions

NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before
the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter
of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors.
508 OCTOBER TERM, 2022

Syllabus

ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR THE VISUAL
ARTS, INC. v. GOLDSMITH et al.

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for
the second circuit
No. 21–869. Argued October 12, 2022—Decided May 18, 2023
In 2016, petitioner Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Inc.
(AWF) licensed to Condé Nast for $10,000 an image of “Orange
Prince”—an orange silkscreen portrait of the musician Prince created
by pop artist Andy Warhol—to appear on the cover of a magazine com-
memorating Prince. Orange Prince is one of 16 works now known as
the Prince Series that Warhol derived from a copyrighted photograph
taken in 1981 by respondent Lynn Goldsmith, a professional photogra-
pher. Goldsmith had been commissioned by Newsweek in 1981 to pho-
tograph a then “up and coming” musician named Prince Rogers Nelson,
after which Newsweek published one of Goldsmith's photos along with
an article about Prince. Years later, Goldsmith granted a limited li-
cense to Vanity Fair for use of one of her Prince photos as an “artist
Page Proof Pending Publication
reference for an illustration.” The terms of the license included that
the use would be for “one time” only. Vanity Fair hired Warhol to cre-
ate the illustration, and Warhol used Goldsmith's photo to create a pur-
ple silkscreen portrait of Prince, which appeared with an article about
Prince in Vanity Fair's November 1984 issue. The magazine credited
Goldsmith for the “source photograph” and paid her $400. After Prince
died in 2016, Vanity Fair's parent company (Condé Nast) asked AWF
about reusing the 1984 Vanity Fair image for a special edition magazine
that would commemorate Prince. When Condé Nast learned about the
other Prince Series images, it opted instead to purchase a license from
AWF to publish Orange Prince. Goldsmith did not know about the
Prince Series until 2016, when she saw Orange Prince on the cover of
Condé Nast's magazine. Goldsmith notifed AWF of her belief that
it had infringed her copyright. AWF then sued Goldsmith for a declar-
atory judgment of noninfringement or, in the alternative, fair use.
Goldsmith counterclaimed for infringement. The District Court consid-
ered the four fair use factors in 17 U. S. C. § 107 and granted AWF sum-
mary judgment on its defense of fair use. The Court of Appeals
reversed, fnding that all four fair use factors favored Goldsmith. In
this Court, the sole question presented is whether the frst fair use fac-
tor, “the purpose and character of the use, including whether such use
is of a commercial nature or is for nonproft educational purposes,”
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 509

Syllabus

§ 107(1), weighs in favor of AWF's recent commercial licensing to
Condé Nast.
Held: The “purpose and character” of AWF's use of Goldsmith's photo-
graph in commercially licensing Orange Prince to Condé Nast does not
favor AWF's fair use defense to copyright infringement. Pp. 525–551.
(a) AWF contends that the Prince Series works are “transformative,”
and that the frst fair use factor thus weighs in AWF's favor, because
the works convey a different meaning or message than the photograph.
But the frst fair use factor instead focuses on whether an allegedly
infringing use has a further purpose or different character, which is a
matter of degree, and the degree of difference must be weighed against
other considerations, like commercialism. Although new expression,
meaning, or message may be relevant to whether a copying use has a
suffciently distinct purpose or character, it is not, without more, disposi-
tive of the frst factor. Here, the specifc use of Goldsmith's photograph
alleged to infringe her copyright is AWF's licensing of Orange Prince to
Condé Nast. As portraits of Prince used to depict Prince in magazine
stories about Prince, the original photograph and AWF's copying use of
it share substantially the same purpose. Moreover, AWF's use is of a
commercial nature. Even though Orange Prince adds new expression
Page Proof Pending Publication
to Goldsmith's photograph, in the context of the challenged use, the frst
fair use factor still favors Goldsmith. Pp. 525–540.
(1) The Copyright Act encourages creativity by granting to the cre-
ator of an original work a bundle of rights that includes the rights to
reproduce the copyrighted work and to prepare derivative works. 17
U. S. C. § 106. Copyright, however, balances the benefts of incentives
to create against the costs of restrictions on copying. This balancing
act is refected in the common-law doctrine of fair use, codifed in § 107,
which provides: “[T]he fair use of a copyrighted work, . . . for purposes
such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching . . . , scholarship, or
research, is not an infringement of copyright.” To determine whether
a particular use is “fair,” the statute enumerates four factors to be con-
sidered. The factors “set forth general principles, the application of
which requires judicial balancing, depending upon relevant circum-
stances.” Google LLC v. Oracle America, Inc., 593 U. S. –––, –––.
The frst fair use factor, “the purpose and character of the use, includ-
ing whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonproft educa-
tional purposes,” § 107(1), considers the reasons for, and nature of, the
copier's use of an original work. The central question it asks is whether
the use “merely supersedes the objects of the original creation . . . (sup-
planting the original), or instead adds something new, with a further
purpose or different character.” Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc.,
510 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Syllabus

510 U. S. 569, 579 (internal quotation marks omitted). As most copy-
ing has some further purpose and many secondary works add some-
thing new, the frst factor asks “whether and to what extent” the use
at issue has a purpose or character different from the original. Ibid.
(emphasis added). The larger the difference, the more likely the frst
factor weighs in favor of fair use. A use that has a further purpose or
different character is said to be “transformative,” but that too is a mat-
ter of degree. Ibid. To preserve the copyright owner's right to pre-
pare derivative works, defned in § 101 of the Copyright Act to include
“any other form in which a work may be recast, transformed, or
adapted,” the degree of transformation required to make “transforma-
tive” use of an original work must go beyond that required to qualify
as a derivative.
The Court's decision in Campbell is instructive. In holding that par-
ody may be fair use, the Court explained that “parody has an obvious
claim to transformative value” because “it can provide social beneft, by
shedding light on an earlier work, and, in the process, creating a new
one.” Ibid. The use at issue was 2 Live Crew's copying of Roy Orbi-
son's song, “Oh, Pretty Woman,” to create a rap derivative, “Pretty
Woman.” 2 Live Crew transformed Orbison's song by adding new lyr-
ics and musical elements, such that “Pretty Woman” had a different
Page Proof Pending Publication
message and aesthetic than “Oh, Pretty Woman.” But that did not end
the Court's analysis of the frst fair use factor. The Court found it nec-
essary to determine whether 2 Live Crew's transformation rose to the
level of parody, a distinct purpose of commenting on the original or
criticizing it. Further distinguishing between parody and satire, the
Court explained that “[p]arody needs to mimic an original to make its
point, and so has some claim to use the creation of its victim's (or collec-
tive victims') imagination, whereas satire can stand on its own two feet
and so requires justifcation for the very act of borrowing.” Id., at 580–
581. More generally, when “commentary has no critical bearing on the
substance or style of the original composition, . . . the claim to fairness
in borrowing from another's work diminishes accordingly (if it does not
vanish), and other factors, like the extent of its commerciality, loom
larger.” Id., at 580.
Campbell illustrates two important points. First, the fact that a use
is commercial as opposed to nonproft is an additional element of the
frst fair use factor. The commercial nature of a use is relevant, but not
dispositive. It is to be weighed against the degree to which the use has
a further purpose or different character. Second, the frst factor relates
to the justifcation for the use. In a broad sense, a use that has a dis-
tinct purpose is justifed because it furthers the goal of copyright,
namely, to promote the progress of science and the arts, without dimin-
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 511

Syllabus

ishing the incentive to create. In a narrower sense, a use may be justi-
fed because copying is reasonably necessary to achieve the user's new
purpose. Parody, for example, “needs to mimic an original to make its
point.” Id., at 580–581. Similarly, other commentary or criticism that
targets an original work may have compelling reason to “conjure up”
the original by borrowing from it. Id., at 588. An independent justi-
fcation like this is particularly relevant to assessing fair use where an
original work and copying use share the same or highly similar pur-
poses, or where wide dissemination of a secondary work would other-
wise run the risk of substitution for the original or licensed derivatives
of it. See id., at 580, n. 14.
In sum, if an original work and secondary use share the same or
highly similar purposes, and the secondary use is commercial, the frst
fair use factor is likely to weigh against fair use, absent some other
justifcation for copying. Pp. 526–533.
(2) The fair use provision, and the frst factor in particular, requires
an analysis of the specifc “use” of a copyrighted work that is alleged to
be “an infringement.” § 107. The same copying may be fair when used
for one purpose but not another. See Campbell, 510 U. S., at 585.
Here, Goldsmith's copyrighted photograph has been used in multiple
ways. The Court limits its analysis to the specifc use alleged to be
Page Proof Pending Publication
infringing in this case—AWF's commercial licensing of Orange Prince
to Condé Nast—and expresses no opinion as to the creation, display, or
sale of the original Prince Series works. In the context of Condé Nast's
special edition magazine commemorating Prince, the purpose of the
Orange Prince image is substantially the same as that of Goldsmith's
original photograph. Both are portraits of Prince used in magazines to
illustrate stories about Prince. The use also is of a commercial nature.
Taken together, these two elements counsel against fair use here. Al-
though a use's transformativeness may outweigh its commercial charac-
ter, in this case both point in the same direction. That does not mean
that all of Warhol's derivative works, nor all uses of them, give rise to
the same fair use analysis. Pp. 533–540.
(b) AWF contends that the purpose and character of its use of Gold-
smith's photograph weighs in favor of fair use because Warhol's silk-
screen image of the photograph has a different meaning or message.
By adding new expression to the photograph, AWF says, Warhol made
transformative use of it. Campbell did describe a transformative use
as one that “alter[s] the frst [work] with new expression, meaning, or
message.” 510 U. S., at 579. But Campbell cannot be read to mean
that § 107(1) weighs in favor of any use that adds new expression, mean-
ing, or message. Otherwise, “transformative use” would swallow the
copyright owner's exclusive right to prepare derivative works, as many
512 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Syllabus

derivative works that “recast, transfor[m] or adap[t]” the original, § 101,
add new expression of some kind. The meaning of a secondary work,
as reasonably can be perceived, should be considered to the extent nec-
essary to determine whether the purpose of the use is distinct from the
original. For example, the Court in Campbell considered the messages
of 2 Live Crew's song to determine whether the song had a parodic
purpose. But fair use is an objective inquiry into what a user does with
an original work, not an inquiry into the subjective intent of the user,
or into the meaning or impression that an art critic or judge draws from
a work.
Even granting the District Court's conclusion that Orange Prince rea-
sonably can be perceived to portray Prince as iconic, whereas Gold-
smith's portrayal is photorealistic, that difference must be evaluated in
the context of the specifc use at issue. The purpose of AWF's recent
commercial licensing of Orange Prince was to illustrate a magazine
about Prince with a portrait of Prince. Although the purpose could be
more specifcally described as illustrating a magazine about Prince with
a portrait of Prince, one that portrays Prince somewhat differently from
Goldsmith's photograph (yet has no critical bearing on her photograph),
that degree of difference is not enough for the frst factor to favor AWF,
given the specifc context and commercial nature of the use. To hold
Page Proof Pending Publication
otherwise might authorize a range of commercial copying of photo-
graphs to be used for purposes that are substantially the same as those
of the originals.
AWF asserts another related purpose of Orange Prince, which is to
comment on the “dehumanizing nature” and “effects” of celebrity. No
doubt, many of Warhol's works, and particularly his uses of repeated
images, can be perceived as depicting celebrities as commodities. But
even if such commentary is perceptible on the cover of Condé Nast's
tribute to “Prince Rogers Nelson, 1958–2016,” on the occasion of the
man's death, the asserted commentary is at Campbell's lowest ebb: It
“has no critical bearing on” Goldsmith's photograph, thus the commen-
tary's “claim to fairness in borrowing from” her work “diminishes ac-
cordingly (if it does not vanish).” Campbell, 510 U. S., at 580. The
commercial nature of the use, on the other hand, “loom[s] larger.” Ibid.
Like satire that does not target an original work, AWF's asserted com-
mentary “can stand on its own two feet and so requires justifcation
for the very act of borrowing.” Id., at 581. Moreover, because AWF's
copying of Goldsmith's photograph was for a commercial use so similar
to the photograph's typical use, a particularly compelling justifcation is
needed. Copying the photograph because doing so was merely helpful
to convey a new meaning or message is not justifcation enough.
Pp. 540–550.
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 513

Syllabus

(c) Goldsmith's original works, like those of other photographers, are
entitled to copyright protection, even against famous artists. Such pro-
tection includes the right to prepare derivative works that transform
the original. The use of a copyrighted work may nevertheless be fair
if, among other things, the use has a purpose and character that is suff-
ciently distinct from the original. In this case, however, Goldsmith's
photograph of Prince and AWF's copying use of the photograph in an
image licensed to a special edition magazine devoted to Prince share
substantially the same commercial purpose. AWF has offered no other
persuasive justifcation for its unauthorized use of the photograph.
While the Court has cautioned that the four statutory fair use factors
may not “be treated in isolation, one from another,” but instead all must
be “weighed together, in light of the purposes of copyright,” Campbell,
510 U. S., at 578, here AWF challenges only the Court of Appeals' deter-
minations on the frst fair use factor, and the Court agrees the frst
factor favors Goldsmith. Pp. 550–551.
11 F. 4th 26, affrmed.

Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Thomas,
Alito, Gorsuch, Kavanaugh, Barrett, and Jackson, JJ., joined. Gor-
such, J., fled a concurring opinion, in which Jackson, J., joined, post,
Page Proof Pending Publication
p. 553. Kagan, J., fled a dissenting opinion, in which Roberts, C. J.,
joined, post, p. 558.

Roman Martinez argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Sarang Vijay Damle, Elana Night-
ingale Dawson, Cherish A. Drain, Andrew Gass, Joseph R.
Wetzel, and Samir Deger-Sen.
Lisa S. Blatt argued the cause for respondents. With her
on the brief were Thomas G. Hentoff and Sarah M. Harris.
Yaira Dubin argued the cause for the United States as
amicus curiae urging affrmance. With her on the brief
were Solicitor General Prelogar, Principal Deputy Assist-
ant Attorney General Boynton, Deputy Solicitor General
Stewart, Daniel Tenny, Suzanne V. Wilson, Mark T. Gray,
Jordana S. Rubel, Nicholas R. Bartelt, and Shireen Nasir.*

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were fled for Artists by Brian
M. Willen; for Art Law Professors by Mark A. Lemley, pro se, and Joseph
C. Gratz; for the Authors Alliance by Erik Stallman and Pamela Samuel-
son; for Documentary Filmmakers by Caren Decter and Edward H. Rosen-
514 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.
This copyright case involves not one, but two artists. The
frst, Andy Warhol, is well known. His images of products

thal; for the Electronic Frontier Foundation et al. by Corynne
McSherry; for Floor64, Inc., by Cather ine R. Gellis; for the Robert
Rauschenberg Foundation et al. by Jaime A. Santos, Andrew Kim, and
Jeffrey P. Cunard; and for the Royal Manticoran Navy: The Offcial Honor
Harrington Fan Association, Inc., by J. Remy Green. A brief of amici
curiae urging vacatur was fled for the Library Futures Institute et al. by
Kyle K. Courtney and Brandon Butler.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the American
Society of Media Photographers, Inc., et al. by Thomas B. Maddrey,
Mickey H. Osterreicher, and Stephen M. Doniger; for the Association of
American Publishers by Dale Cendali and Joshua L. Simmons; for the
California Society of Entertainment Lawyers et al. by Scott Alan Bur-
roughs and Steven T. Lowe; for the Committee for Justice by John M.
Reeves and Curt Levey; for Dr. Seuss Enterprises, L. P., by Stanley J.
Panikowski; for the Graphic Artists Guild, Inc., et al. by Linda Joy Katt-
winkel and James Lorin Silverberg; for the Institute for Intellectual Prop-
Page Proof Pending Publication
erty and Social Justice et al. by Melanie L. Bostwick; for the Phoenix
Center for Advanced Legal & Economic Public Policy Studies by Lawrence
J. Spiwak; for the Recording Industry Association of America et al. by
Frank P. Scibilia, Donald S. Zakarin, and Benjamin S. Akley; for the
Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists
by Danielle S. Van Lier; for Gary Bernstein et al. by David Leichtman;
for Sen. Marsha Blackburn by Thomas M. Johnson, Jr., and Krystal B.
Swendsboe; for Terry Kogan by Gregory Dubinsky; for Philippa S. Loen-
gard by Nicholas M. O'Donnell and Erika L. Todd; for Peter S. Menell
et al. by Mr. Menell, pro se; for Zvi S. Rosen by Mr. Rosen, pro se; and
for Jeffrey Sedlik by Matthew Hersh.
Briefs of amici curiae were fled for the American Intellectual Property
Law Association by Lauren B. Emerson, Stefanie M. Garibyan, and Pat-
rick J. Coyne; for the Art Institute of Chicago et al. by Simon J. Frankel;
for the Authors Guild, Inc., et al. by Eleanor M. Lackman, Robert
Rotstein, Eric J. Schwartz, and J. Matthew Williams; for the Copyright
Alliance by Susan J. Kohlmann; for Copyright Law Professors by Rebecca
Tushnet, pro se; for the Digital Media Licensing Association by Naomi
Jane Gray; for the Motion Picture Association, Inc., by Donald B. Verrilli,
Jr., and Virginia Grace Davis; for the New York Intellectual Property
Law Association by Mark A. Baghdassarian, Irena Royzman, Robert J.
Rando, Mitchell Stein, Charles R. Macedo, and David P. Goldberg; for
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 515

Opinion of the Court

like Campbell's soup cans and of celebrities like Marilyn
Monroe appear in museums around the world. Warhol's
contribution to contemporary art is undeniable.
The second, Lynn Goldsmith, is less well known. But she
too was a trailblazer. Goldsmith began a career in rock-and-
roll photography when there were few women in the genre.
Her award-winning concert and portrait images, however,
shot to the top. Goldsmith's work appeared in Life, Time,
Rolling Stone, and People magazines, not to mention the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery and the Museum of Modern Art. She
captured some of the 20th century's greatest rock stars: Bob
Dylan, Mick Jagger, Patti Smith, Bruce Springsteen, and, as
relevant here, Prince.
In 1984, Vanity Fair sought to license one of Goldsmith's
Prince photographs for use as an “artist reference.” The
magazine wanted the photograph to help illustrate a story
about the musician. Goldsmith agreed, on the condition that
the use of her photo be for “one time” only. 1 App. 85. The
Page Proof Pending Publication
artist Vanity Fair hired was Andy Warhol. Warhol made a
silkscreen using Goldsmith's photo, and Vanity Fair pub-
lished the resulting image alongside an article about Prince.
The magazine credited Goldsmith for the “source photo-
graph,” and it paid her $400. 2 id., at 323, 325–326.
Warhol, however, did not stop there. From Goldsmith's
photograph, he derived 15 additional works. Later, the
Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Inc. (AWF)
licensed one of those works to Condé Nast, again for the
purpose of illustrating a magazine story about Prince. AWF
came away with $10,000. Goldsmith received nothing.
When Goldsmith informed AWF that she believed its use
of her photograph infringed her copyright, AWF sued her.
The District Court granted summary judgment for AWF on
its assertion of “fair use,” 17 U. S. C. § 107, but the Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed. In this Court, the
Richard Meyer by Jonathan Y. Ellis; and for Guy A. Rub by Katherine
C. Ferguson and Mr. Rub, pro se.
516 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

sole question presented is whether the frst fair use factor,
“the purpose and character of the use, including whether
such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonproft educa-
tional purposes,” § 107(1), weighs in favor of AWF's recent
commercial licensing to Condé Nast. On that narrow issue,
and limited to the challenged use, the Court agrees with the
Second Circuit: The frst factor favors Goldsmith, not AWF.

I
Lynn Goldsmith is a professional photographer. Her spe-
cialty is concert and portrait photography of musicians. At
age 16, Goldsmith got one of her frst shots: an image of the
Beatles' “trendy boots” before the band performed live on
The Ed Sullivan Show. S. Michel, Rock Portraits, N. Y.
Times, Dec. 2, 2007, p. G64. Within 10 years, Goldsmith had
photographed everyone from Led Zeppelin to James Brown
(the latter in concert in Kinshasa, no less). At that time,
Page Proof Pending Publication
Goldsmith “had few female peers.” Ibid. But she was a
self-starter. She quickly became “a leading rock photogra-
pher” in an era “when women on the scene were largely dis-
missed as groupies.” Ibid.
In 1981, Goldsmith convinced Newsweek magazine to hire
her to photograph Prince Rogers Nelson, then an “up and
coming” and “hot young musician.” 2 App. 315. News-
week agreed, and Goldsmith took photos of Prince in concert
at the Palladium in New York City and in her studio on West
36th Street. Newsweek ran one of the concert photos,
together with an article titled “ `The Naughty Prince of
Rock.' ” Id., at 320. Goldsmith retained the other photos.
She holds copyright in all of them.
One of Goldsmith's studio photographs, a black and white
portrait of Prince, is the original copyrighted work at issue
in this case. See fg. 1, infra.
In 1984, Goldsmith, through her agency, licensed that pho-
tograph to Vanity Fair to serve as an “artist reference for an
illustration” in the magazine. 1 App. 85. The terms of the
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 517

Opinion of the Court

Page Proof Pending Publication
Figure 1. A black and white portrait photograph of Prince
taken in 1981 by Lynn Goldsmith.

license were that the illustration was “to be published in
Vanity Fair November 1984 issue. It can appear one time
full page and one time under one quarter page. No other
usage right granted.” Ibid. Goldsmith was to receive $400
and a source credit.
To make the illustration, Vanity Fair hired pop artist Andy
Warhol. Warhol was already a major fgure in American
art, known among other things for his silkscreen portraits of
celebrities.1 From Goldsmith's photograph, Warhol created
1
A silkscreen is a fne mesh fabric used in screen printing. Warhol's
practice was to deliver a photograph to a professional silkscreen printer
with instructions for alterations, such as cropping and high contrasting.
1 App. 160, 163. The latter alteration would “fatten” the image. Once
Warhol approved, the printer would “reproduc[e]” the altered image “like
a photographic negative onto the screen.” Id., at 164. For canvas prints,
518 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

a silkscreen portrait of Prince, which appeared alongside an
article about Prince in the November 1984 issue of Vanity
Fair. See fg. 2, infra. The article, titled “Purple Fame,” is
primarily about the “sexual style” of the new celebrity and
his music. Vanity Fair, Nov. 1984, p. 66. Goldsmith re-
ceived her $400 fee, and Vanity Fair credited her for the
“source photograph.” 2 App. 323, 325–326. Warhol re-
ceived an unspecifed amount.
In addition to the single illustration authorized by the
Vanity Fair license, Warhol created 15 other works based on
Goldsmith's photograph: 13 silkscreen prints and two pencil
drawings. The works are collectively referred to as the
“Prince Series.” See Appendix, infra. Goldsmith did not
know about the Prince Series until 2016, when she saw the
image of an orange silkscreen portrait of Prince (“Orange

Page Proof Pending Publication

Figure 2. A purple silkscreen portrait of Prince created in 1984
by Andy Warhol to illustrate an article in Vanity Fair.

Warhol “would then place the screen face down on the canvas, pour ink
onto the back of the mesh, and use a squeegee to pull the ink through the
weave and onto the canvas.” Ibid. The resulting “high-contrast half-
tone impressions” served as an “ `under-drawing,' ” over which Warhol
painted colors by hand. Id., at 165.
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 519

Opinion of the Court

Prince”) on the cover of a magazine published by Vanity
Fair's parent company, Condé Nast. See fg. 3, infra.
By that time, Warhol had died, and the Prince Series had
passed to the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts,
Inc. AWF no longer possesses the works,2 but it asserts
copyright in them. It has licensed images of the works for
commercial and editorial uses. In particular, after Prince
died in 2016, Condé Nast contacted AWF about the possibil-
ity of reusing the 1984 Vanity Fair image for a special edition
magazine that would commemorate Prince. Once AWF in-
formed Condé Nast about the other Prince Series images,
however, Condé Nast obtained a license to publish Orange
Prince instead. The magazine, titled “The Genius of

Page Proof Pending Publication

Figure 3. An orange silkscreen portrait of Prince on the cover
of a special edition magazine published in 2016 by Condé Nast.

2
AWF sold 12 of the works to collectors and galleries, and it transferred
custody of the remaining four works to the Andy Warhol Museum in
Pittsburgh.
520 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

Prince,” is a tribute to “Prince Rogers Nelson, 1958–2016.”
It is “devoted to Prince.” 2 App. 352. Condé Nast paid
AWF $10,000 for the license. Goldsmith received neither a
fee nor a source credit.
Remember that Goldsmith, too, had licensed her Prince
images to magazines such as Newsweek, to accompany a
story about the musician, and Vanity Fair, to serve as an
artist reference. But that was not all. Between 1981 and
2016, Goldsmith's photos of Prince appeared on or between
the covers of People, Readers Digest, Guitar World, and Mu-
sician magazines. See, e. g., fg. 4, infra.
People magazine, in fact, paid Goldsmith $1,000 to use
one of her copyrighted photographs in a special collector's
edition, “Celebrating Prince: 1958–2016,” just after Prince
died. People's tribute, like Condé Nast's, honors the life
and music of Prince. Other magazines, including Rolling

Page Proof Pending Publication

Figure 4. One of Lynn Goldsmith's photographs of Prince
on the cover of Musician magazine.
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 521

Opinion of the Court

Stone and Time, also released special editions. See fg. 5,
infra. All of them depicted Prince on the cover. All of
them used a copyrighted photograph in service of that ob-
ject. And all of them (except Condé Nast) credited the
photographer.

Page Proof Pending Publication

Figure 5. Four special edition magazines commemorating Prince
after he died in 2016.
522 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

When Goldsmith saw Orange Prince on the cover of Condé
Nast's special edition magazine, she recognized her work.
“It's the photograph, ” she later testified. 1 App. 290.
Orange Prince crops, fattens, traces, and colors the photo
but otherwise does not alter it. See fg. 6, infra.
Goldsmith notifed AWF of her belief that it had in-
fringed her copyright. AWF then sued Goldsmith and her
agency for a declaratory judgment of noninfringement or,
in the alternative, fair use. Goldsmith counterclaimed for
infringement.
The District Court granted summary judgment for AWF.
382 F. Supp. 3d 312, 316 (SDNY 2019). The court considered
the four fair use factors enumerated in 17 U. S. C. § 107 and
held that the Prince Series works made fair use of Gold-
smith's photograph. As to the frst factor, the works were
“transformative” because, looking at them and the photo-
graph “side-by-side,” they “have a different character, give
Goldsmith's photograph a new expression, and employ new
Page Proof Pending Publication
aesthetics with creative and communicative results distinct
from Goldsmith's.” 382 F. Supp. 3d, at 325–326 (internal

Figure 6. Warhol's orange silkscreen portrait of Prince superimposed
on Goldsmith's portrait photograph.
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 523

Opinion of the Court

quotation marks and alterations omitted). In particular, the
works “can reasonably be perceived to have transformed
Prince from a vulnerable, uncomfortable person to an iconic,
larger-than-life fgure,” such that “each Prince Series work
is immediately recognizable as a `Warhol' rather than as a
photograph of Prince.” Id., at 326. Although the second
factor, the nature of Goldsmith's copyrighted work (creative
and unpublished), “would ordinarily weigh in [her] favor . . . ,
this factor [was] of limited importance because the Prince
Series works are transformative.” Id., at 327. The third
factor, the amount and substantiality of the portion used in
relation to the copyrighted work, favored AWF because, ac-
cording to the District Court, “Warhol removed nearly all
the photograph's protectible elements in creating the Prince
Series.” Id., at 330. Finally, the fourth factor likewise fa-
vored AWF because “the Prince Series works are not mar-
ket substitutes that have harmed—or have the potential to
Page Proof Pending Publication
harm—Goldsmith.” Id., at 331.
The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed and
remanded. 11 F. 4th 26, 54 (2021). It held that all four fair
use factors favored Goldsmith. On the frst factor, “the pur-
pose and character of the use,” § 107(1), the Court of Appeals
rejected the notion that “any secondary work that adds a
new aesthetic or new expression to its source material is
necessarily transformative.” Id., at 38–39. The question
was, instead, “whether the secondary work's use of its source
material is in service of a fundamentally different and new
artistic purpose and character.” Id., at 42 (internal quota-
tion marks omitted). Such “transformative purpose and
character must, at bare minimum, comprise something more
than the imposition of another artist's style on the primary
work.” Ibid. Here, however, “the overarching purpose
and function of the two works at issue . . . is identical, not
merely in the broad sense that they are created as works
of visual art, but also in the narrow but essential sense
that they are portraits of the same person.” Ibid. (footnote
524 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

omitted). The Court of Appeals also rejected the District
Court's logic that “ `each Prince Series work' ” is transfor-
mative because it “ `is immediately recognizable as a “War-
hol,” ' ” which the Court of Appeals believed would “create a
celebrity-plagiarist privilege.” Id., at 43; see also ibid.
(“[T]he fact that Martin Scorsese's recent flm The Irishman
is recognizably `a Scorsese' does not absolve him of the obli-
gation to license the original book” (some internal quotation
marks and alterations omitted)).
On the other three factors, the Court of Appeals found
that the creative and unpublished nature of Goldsmith's pho-
tograph favored her, id., at 45; that the amount and substan-
tiality of the portion taken (here, “the `essence' ” of the pho-
tograph) was not reasonable in relation to the purpose of
the use, id., at 45–47; and that AWF's commercial licensing
encroached on Goldsmith's protected market to license her
photograph “to publications for editorial purposes and to
Page Proof Pending Publication
other artists to create derivative works,” id., at 48–51.3 The
court noted that there was “no material dispute that both
Goldsmith and AWF have sought to license (and indeed have
successfully licensed) their respective depictions of Prince to
popular print magazines to accompany articles about him.”
Id., at 49 (footnote omitted).
Finally, although the District Court had not reached the
issue, the Court of Appeals rejected AWF's argument that
the Prince Series works were not substantially similar to
Goldsmith's photograph. See id., at 52–54.

3
The Court of Appeals considered not only the possibility of market
harm caused by the actions of AWF but also “whether `unrestricted and
widespread conduct of the sort engaged in by [AWF] would result in a
substantially adverse impact on the potential market' ” for the photograph,
including the market for derivative works. 11 F. 4th 26, 49–50 (CA2 2021)
(quoting Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U. S. 569, 590 (1994));
see also Harper & Row, Publishers, Inc. v. Nation Enterprises, 471 U. S.
539, 568 (1985).
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 525

Opinion of the Court

Judge Jacobs concurred. He stressed that the Court of
Appeals' holding “d[id] not consider, let alone decide,
whether the infringement here encumbers the original
Prince Series works.” Id., at 54. Instead, “the only use at
issue” was “the Foundation's commercial licensing” of im-
ages of the Prince Series. Id., at 55.
This Court granted certiorari. 596 U. S. ––– (2022).

II
AWF does not challenge the Court of Appeals' holding that
Goldsmith's photograph and the Prince Series works are sub-
stantially similar. The question here is whether AWF can
defend against a claim of copyright infringement because it
made “fair use” of Goldsmith's photograph. 17 U. S. C. § 107.
Although the Court of Appeals analyzed each fair use fac-
tor, the only question before this Court is whether the court
below correctly held that the frst factor, “the purpose and
Page Proof Pending Publication
character of the use, including whether such use is of a com-
mercial nature or is for nonproft educational purposes,”
§ 107(1), weighs in Goldsmith's favor. AWF contends that
the Prince Series works are “transformative,” and that the
frst factor therefore weighs in its favor, because the works
convey a different meaning or message than the photograph.
Brief for Petitioner 33. The Court of Appeals erred, accord-
ing to AWF, by not considering that new expression. Id.,
at 47–48.
But the frst fair use factor instead focuses on whether an
allegedly infringing use has a further purpose or different
character, which is a matter of degree, and the degree of
difference must be weighed against other considerations, like
commercialism. Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510
U. S. 569, 579 (1994). Although new expression may be rele-
vant to whether a copying use has a suffciently distinct pur-
pose or character, it is not, without more, dispositive of the
frst factor.
526 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

Here, the specifc use of Goldsmith's photograph alleged to
infringe her copyright is AWF's licensing of Orange Prince
to Condé Nast. As portraits of Prince used to depict Prince
in magazine stories about Prince, the original photograph
and AWF's copying use of it share substantially the same
purpose. Moreover, the copying use is of a commercial na-
ture. Even though Orange Prince adds new expression to
Goldsmith's photograph, as the District Court found, this
Court agrees with the Court of Appeals that, in the context
of the challenged use, the frst fair use factor still favors
Goldsmith.
A
The Copyright Act encourages creativity by granting to
the author of an original work “a bundle of exclusive rights.”
Harper & Row, Publishers, Inc. v. Nation Enterprises, 471
U. S. 539, 546 (1985); see U. S. Const., Art. I, § 8, cl. 8 (“The
Congress shall have Power . . . To promote the Progress of
Page Proof Pending Publication
Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respec-
tive Writings and Discoveries”). That bundle includes the
rights to reproduce the copyrighted work, to prepare deriva-
tive works, and, in the case of pictorial or graphic works, to
display the copyrighted work publicly. 17 U. S. C. § 106.
The Act, however, “refects a balance of competing claims
upon the public interest: Creative work is to be encouraged
and rewarded, but private motivation must ultimately serve
the cause of promoting broad public availability of literature,
music, and the other arts.” Twentieth Century Music Corp.
v. Aiken, 422 U. S. 151, 156 (1975). Copyright thus trades
off the benefts of incentives to create against the costs of
restrictions on copying. The Act, for example, limits the du-
ration of copyright, §§ 302–305, as required by the Constitu-
tion; makes facts and ideas uncopyrightable, § 102; and limits
the scope of copyright owners' exclusive rights, §§ 107–122.
This balancing act between creativity and availability (in-
cluding for use in new works) is refected in one such limita-
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 527

Opinion of the Court

tion, the defense of “fair use.” In 1976, Congress codifed
the common-law doctrine of fair use in § 107, which provides:
“[T]he fair use of a copyrighted work, . . . for purposes such
as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching . . . , scholar-
ship, or research, is not an infringement of copyright.” To
determine whether a particular use is “fair,” the statute sets
out four factors to be considered:
“(1) the purpose and character of the use, including
whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for non-
proft educational purposes;
“(2) the nature of the copyrighted work;
“(3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used
in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole; and
“(4) the effect of the use upon the potential market
for or value of the copyrighted work.”
The fair use doctrine “permits courts to avoid rigid appli-
cation of the copyright statute when, on occasion, it would
Page Proof Pending Publication
stife the very creativity which that law is designed to fos-
ter.” Stewart v. Abend, 495 U. S. 207, 236 (1990) (internal
quotation marks omitted). The Act's fair use provision, in
turn, “set[s] forth general principles, the application of which
requires judicial balancing, depending upon relevant circum-
stances.” Google LLC v. Oracle America, Inc., 593 U. S.
–––, ––– (2021). Because those principles apply across a
wide range of copyrightable material, from books to photo-
graphs to software, fair use is a “fexible” concept, and “its
application may well vary depending upon context.” Id.,
at –––. For example, in applying the fair use provision,
“copyright's protection may be stronger where the copy-
righted material . . . serves an artistic rather than a utilitar-
ian function.” Ibid.
1
The frst fair use factor is “the purpose and character of
the use, including whether such use is of a commercial nature
or is for nonproft educational purposes.” § 107(1). This
528 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

factor considers the reasons for, and nature of, the copier's
use of an original work. The “central” question it asks is
“whether the new work merely `supersede[s] the objects' of
the original creation . . . (`supplanting' the original), or in-
stead adds something new, with a further purpose or differ-
ent character.” Campbell, 510 U. S., at 579 (quoting Folsom
v. Marsh, 9 F. Cas. 342, 348 (No. 4,901) (CC Mass. 1841)
(Story, J.), and Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 562). In that
way, the frst factor relates to the problem of substitution—
copyright's bête noire. The use of an original work to
achieve a purpose that is the same as, or highly similar to,
that of the original work is more likely to substitute for, or
“ `supplan[t],' ” the work, ibid.
Consider the “purposes” listed in the preamble paragraph
of § 107: “criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching . . . ,
scholarship, or research.” Although the examples given are
“ `illustrative and not limitative,' ” they refect “the sorts of
copying that courts and Congress most commonly ha[ve]
Page Proof Pending Publication
found to be fair uses,” and so may guide the frst factor in-
quiry. Campbell, 510 U. S., at 577–578 (quoting § 101). As
the Court of Appeals observed, the “examples are easily un-
derstood,” as they contemplate the use of an original work
to “serv[e] a manifestly different purpose from the [work]
itself.” 11 F. 4th, at 37. Criticism of a work, for instance,
ordinarily does not supersede the objects of, or supplant, the
work. Rather, it uses the work to serve a distinct end.4
Not every instance will be clear cut, however. Whether
a use shares the purpose or character of an original work, or
instead has a further purpose or different character, is a mat-
ter of degree. Most copying has some further purpose, in

4
Take a critical book review, for example. Not only does the review, as
a whole, serve a different purpose than the book; each quoted passage
within the review likely serves a different purpose (as an object of criti-
cism) than it does in the book. That may not always be so, however, and
a court must consider each use within the whole to determine whether the
copying is fair. W. Patry, Fair Use § 3:1, pp. 129–130 (2022).
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 529

Opinion of the Court

the sense that copying is socially useful ex post. Many sec-
ondary works add something new. That alone does not ren-
der such uses fair. Rather, the frst factor (which is just one
factor in a larger analysis) asks “whether and to what extent”
the use at issue has a purpose or character different from
the original. Campbell, 510 U. S., at 579 (emphasis added).
The larger the difference, the more likely the frst factor
weighs in favor of fair use. The smaller the difference, the
less likely.
A use that has a further purpose or different character is
said to be “ `transformative.' ” Ibid. (quoting P. Leval, To-
ward a Fair Use Standard, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 1105, 1111
(1990) (hereinafter Leval)). As before, “transformative-
ness” is a matter of degree. See Campbell, 510 U. S., at 579.
That is important because the word “transform,” though not
included in § 107, appears elsewhere in the Copyright Act.
The statute defnes derivative works, which the copyright
owner has “the exclusive righ[t]” to prepare, § 106(2), to in-
Page Proof Pending Publication
clude “any other form in which a work may be recast, trans-
formed, or adapted,” § 101. In other words, the owner has
a right to derivative transformations of her work. Such
transformations may be substantial, like the adaptation of a
book into a movie. To be sure, this right is “[s]ubject to”
fair use. § 106; see also § 107. The two are not mutually
exclusive. But an overbroad concept of transformative use,
one that includes any further purpose, or any different char-
acter, would narrow the copyright owner's exclusive right to
create derivative works. To preserve that right, the degree
of transformation required to make “transformative” use of
an original must go beyond that required to qualify as a
derivative.5

5
In theory, the question of transformative use or transformative pur-
pose can be separated from the question whether there has been transfor-
mation of a work. In practice, however, the two may overlap. Compare,
e. g., Núñez v. Caribbean Int'l News Corp., 235 F. 3d 18, 21–23 (CA1 2000)
(newspaper's reproduction, without alteration, of photograph of beauty
530 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

For example, this Court in Campbell considered whether
parody may be fair use. In holding that it may, the Court
explained that “parody has an obvious claim to transforma-
tive value” because “it can provide social beneft, by shed-
ding light on an earlier work, and, in the process, creating a
new one.” Id., at 579. The use at issue in Campbell was 2
Live Crew's copying of certain lyrics and musical elements
from Roy Orbison's song, “Oh, Pretty Woman,” to create a
rap derivative titled “Pretty Woman.” Without a doubt, 2
Live Crew transformed Orbison's song by adding new lyrics
and musical elements, such that “Pretty Woman” had a new
message and different aesthetic than “Oh, Pretty Woman.”
Indeed, the whole genre of music changed from rock ballad
to rap. That was not enough for the frst factor to weigh in
favor of fair use, however. The Court found it necessary to
determine whether 2 Live Crew's transformation of Orbi-
son's song rose to the level of parody, a distinct purpose of
commenting on the original or criticizing it. See id., at
Page Proof Pending Publication
580–583.
Distinguishing between parody (which targets an author
or work for humor or ridicule) and satire (which ridicules
society but does not necessarily target an author or work),
the Court further explained that “[p]arody needs to mimic
an original to make its point, and so has some claim to use
the creation of its victim's (or collective victims') imagina-
tion, whereas satire can stand on its own two feet and so
requires justifcation for the very act of borrowing.” Id., at
580–581. More generally, when “commentary has no critical
bearing on the substance or style of the original composition,
. . . the claim to fairness in borrowing from another's work

pageant winner to explain controversy over whether her title should be
withdrawn had transformative purpose because “ `the pictures were the
story' ”), with Leibovitz v. Paramount Pictures Corp., 137 F. 3d 109, 114–
115 (CA2 1998) (flm advertisement's alteration of well-known photograph
by superimposing actor's face on actress' body had transformative purpose
of parody).
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 531

Opinion of the Court

diminishes accordingly (if it does not vanish), and other fac-
tors, like the extent of its commerciality, loom larger.” Id.,
at 580; see also id., at 597 (Kennedy, J., concurring).
This discussion illustrates two important points: First, the
fact that a use is commercial as opposed to nonproft is an
additional “element of the frst factor.” Id., at 584. The
commercial nature of the use is not dispositive. Ibid.;
Google, 593 U. S., at –––. But it is relevant. As the Court
explained in Campbell, it is to be weighed against the degree
to which the use has a further purpose or different character.
See 510 U. S., at 579 (“[T]he more transformative the new
work, the less will be the signifcance of other factors, like
commercialism, that may weigh against a fnding of fair
use”); see also id., at 580, 585.6
Second, the frst factor also relates to the justifcation for
the use. In a broad sense, a use that has a distinct purpose
is justifed because it furthers the goal of copyright, namely,
to promote the progress of science and the arts, without
Page Proof Pending Publication
diminishing the incentive to create. See id., at 579; Au-
thors Guild v. Google, Inc., 804 F. 3d 202, 214 (CA2 2015)
(Leval, J.) (“The more the appropriator is using the copied
material for new, transformative purposes, the more it
serves copyright's goal of enriching public knowledge and
the less likely it is that the appropriation will serve as a
substitute for the original or its plausible derivatives, shrink-
ing the protected market opportunities of the copyrighted
work”). A use that shares the purpose of a copyrighted
work, by contrast, is more likely to provide “the public with
a substantial substitute for matter protected by the [copy-

6
The authors of the Copyright Act of 1976 included the language,
“ `whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for non-proft educa-
tional purposes,' ” in the frst fair use factor “to state explicitly” that,
“as under the present law, the commercial or non-proft character of
an activity, while not conclusive with respect to fair use, can and should
be weighed along with other factors.” H. R. Rep. No. 94–1476, p. 66
(1976).
532 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

right owner's] interests in the original wor[k] or derivatives
of [it],” id., at 207, which undermines the goal of copyright.
In a narrower sense, a use may be justifed because copy-
ing is reasonably necessary to achieve the user's new pur-
pose. Parody, for example, “needs to mimic an original to
make its point.” Campbell, 510 U. S., at 580–581. Simi-
larly, other commentary or criticism that targets an original
work may have compelling reason to “ `conjure up' ” the orig-
inal by borrowing from it. Id., at 588.7 An independent
justifcation like this is particularly relevant to assessing fair
use where an original work and copying use share the same
or highly similar purposes, or where wide dissemination of a
secondary work would otherwise run the risk of substitution
for the original or licensed derivatives of it. See id., at 580,
n. 14; Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 557. Once again, the
question of justifcation is one of degree. See Leval 1111
(“[I]t is not suffcient simply to conclude whether or not justi-
Page Proof Pending Publication
fcation exists. The question remains how powerful, or per-
suasive, is the justifcation, because the court must weigh the
strength of the secondary user's justifcation against factors
favoring the copyright owner”).
In sum, the frst fair use factor considers whether the use
of a copyrighted work has a further purpose or different
character, which is a matter of degree, and the degree of
difference must be balanced against the commercial nature
of the use. If an original work and a secondary use share
the same or highly similar purposes, and the secondary use

7
Return to the example of a book review. The review's use of quoted
material may be justifed in both the broad and the narrower senses.
First, the use is likely to serve a different purpose than the material itself.
See n. 4, supra. Second, there may be compelling reason to borrow from
the original to achieve that purpose because the review targets the mate-
rial for comment or criticism. But again, the question of justifcation will
depend on the individual use or uses. See Patry, Fair Use § 3:1, at 129–
130. Even book reviews are not entitled to a presumption of fairness.
Campbell, 510 U. S., at 581.
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 533

Opinion of the Court

is of a commercial nature, the frst factor is likely to weigh
against fair use, absent some other justifcation for copying.8

2
The fair use provision, and the frst factor in particular,
requires an analysis of the specifc “use” of a copyrighted
work that is alleged to be “an infringement.” § 107. The
same copying may be fair when used for one purpose but not
another. See Campbell, 510 U. S., at 585 (contrasting the
use of a copyrighted work “to advertise a product, even in a
parody,” with “the sale of a parody for its own sake, let alone
one performed a single time by students in school”); Sony
Corp. of America v. Universal City Studios, Inc., 464 U. S.
417, 449–451 (1984) (contrasting the recording of TV “for a
commercial or proft-making purpose” with “private home
use”).
Here, Goldsmith's copyrighted photograph has been used
in multiple ways: After Goldsmith licensed the photograph
Page Proof Pending Publication
to Vanity Fair to serve as an artist reference, Warhol used
the photograph to create the Vanity Fair illustration and the
other Prince Series works. Vanity Fair then used the pho-
8
Consider, for example, this Court's analysis of the frst factor in Google
LLC v. Oracle America, Inc., 593 U. S. ––– (2021). Google stressed that
“[t]he fact that computer programs are primarily functional makes it diff-
cult to apply traditional copyright concepts in that technological world.”
Id., at –––. Still, in evaluating the purpose and character of Google's use
of Sun Microsystems' code, the Court looked, frst, to whether the purpose
of the use was signifcantly different from that of the original; and, second,
to the strength of other justifcations for the use. Although Google's use
was commercial in nature, it copied Sun's code, which was “created for use
in desktop and laptop computers,” “only insofar as needed to include tasks
that would be useful in smartphone[s].” Id., at –––. That is, Google put
Sun's code to use in the “distinct and different computing environment” of
its own Android platform, a new system created for new products. Ibid.
Moreover, the use was justifed in that context because “shared interfaces
are necessary for different programs to speak to each other” and because
“reimplementation of interfaces is necessary if programmers are to be able
to use their acquired skills.” Ibid.; see also id., at –––.
534 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

tograph, pursuant to the license, when it published Warhol's
illustration in 1984. Finally, AWF used the photograph
when it licensed an image of Warhol's Orange Prince to
Condé Nast in 2016. Only that last use, however, AWF's
commercial licensing of Orange Prince to Condé Nast, is al-
leged to be infringing.9 We limit our analysis accordingly.
In particular, the Court expresses no opinion as to the cre-
ation, display, or sale of any of the original Prince Series
works.10
A typical use of a celebrity photograph is to accompany
stories about the celebrity, often in magazines. For exam-
ple, Goldsmith licensed her photographs of Prince to illus-
trate stories about Prince in magazines such as Newsweek,
Vanity Fair, and People. Supra, at 516–520. She even li-

9
AWF sought a declaratory judgment that would cover the original
Prince Series works, but Goldsmith has abandoned all claims to relief
other than her claim as to the 2016 Condé Nast license and her request
Page Proof Pending Publication
for prospective relief as to similar commercial licensing. Brief for Re-
spondents 3, 17–18; Tr. of Oral Arg. 80–82.
10
The dissent, however, focuses on a case that is not before the Court.
No, not whether Francis Bacon would have made fair use of Velázquez's
painting, had American copyright law applied in Europe with a term
of 300 years post mortem auctoris. But cf. post, at 589–591 (opinion of
Kagan, J.). Rather, Congress has directed courts to examine the purpose
and character of the challenged “use.” 17 U. S. C. § 107(1). Yet the dis-
sent assumes that any and all uses of an original work entail the same
frst-factor analysis based solely on the content of a secondary work. This
assumption contradicts the fair use statute and this Court's precedents.
See supra, at 533. Had AWF's use been solely for teaching purposes, that
clearly would affect the analysis, and the statute permits no other conclu-
sion. Preferring not to focus on the specifc use alleged to infringe Gold-
smith's copyright, the dissent begins with a sleight of hand, see post, at
558, n. 1, and continues with a false equivalence between AWF's commer-
cial licensing and Warhol's original creation. The result is a series of mis-
statements and exaggerations, from the dissent's very frst sentence, post,
at 558 (“Today, the Court declares that Andy Warhol's eye-popping silk-
screen of Prince . . . is (in copyright lingo) not `transformative' ”), to
its very last, post, at 593 (“[The majority opinion] will make our world
poorer”).
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 535

Opinion of the Court

censed her photographs for that purpose after Prince died in
2016. Supra, at 520. A photographer may also license her
creative work to serve as a reference for an artist, like Gold-
smith did in 1984 when Vanity Fair wanted an image of
Prince created by Warhol to illustrate an article about
Prince. As noted by the Court of Appeals, Goldsmith intro-
duced “uncontroverted” evidence “that photographers gener-
ally license others to create stylized derivatives of their work
in the vein of the Prince Series.” 11 F. 4th, at 50; see 2 App.
291–299. In fact, Warhol himself paid to license photographs
for some of his artistic renditions. Such licenses, for photo-
graphs or derivatives of them, are how photographers like
Goldsmith make a living. They provide an economic incen-
tive to create original works, which is the goal of copyright.
In 2016, AWF licensed an image of Orange Prince to
Condé Nast to appear on the cover of a commemorative edi-
tion magazine about Prince. The edition, titled “The Genius
of Prince,” celebrates the life and work of “Prince Rogers
Page Proof Pending Publication
Nelson, 1958–2016.” It is undisputed here that the edition
is “devoted to Prince.” Id., at 352. In addition to AWF's
image on the cover, the magazine contains numerous concert
and studio photographs of Prince. In that context, the pur-
pose of the image is substantially the same as that of Gold-
smith's photograph. Both are portraits of Prince used in
magazines to illustrate stories about Prince.11 Such “envi-

11
The Court of Appeals observed that the “purpose and function of the
two works at issue here is identical, not merely in the broad sense that
they are created as works of visual art, but also in the narrow but essential
sense that they are portraits of the same person.” 11 F. 4th, at 42 (foot-
note omitted). This Court goes somewhat “further and examine[s] the
copying's more specifcally described `purpose[s]' ” in the context of the
particular use at issue (here, in a magazine about Prince). Google, 593
U. S., at –––. The Court does not defne the purpose as simply “commer-
cial” or “commercial licensing.” Post, at 575, 577, n. 7, 582, n. 8 (Kagan,
J., dissenting). Nor does the Court view Goldsmith's photograph and
Warhol's illustration as “fungible products in the magazine market.”
Post, at 575; see post, at 566–567. Rather, the Court fnds signifcant the
536 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court

ronment[s]” are not “distinct and different.” Google, 593
U. S., at –––. AWF's licensing of the Orange Prince image
thus “ `supersede[d] the objects,' ” Campbell, 510 U. S., at
579, i. e., shared the objectives, of Goldsmith's photograph,
even if the two were not perfect substitutes.12

degree of similarity between the specifc purposes of the original work
and the secondary use at issue.
According to the dissent, the fact that a magazine editor might prefer
one image to the other must mean the secondary use is transformative,
either because it has a different aesthetic or conveys a different message.
Ibid.. The Court, because it fails to understand the difference, does not
have “much of a future in magazine publishing,” the dissent chides. Post,
at 567. While the dissent is probably correct about the Court's business
prospects, the editors of People, Rolling Stone, and Time chose a vari-
ety of different photos of Prince for their memorial issues. See fg. 5,
supra. Portrait photos, in fact. Some black and white; some depicting
Prince's “ `corporeality' ”; some “realistic” or “humanistic.” Post, at 566,
573 (Kagan, J., dissenting). These variations in aesthetics did not stop
the photos from serving the same essential purpose of depicting Prince in
Page Proof Pending Publication
a magazine commemorating his life and career.
Fortunately, the dissent's “magazine editor” test does not have much of
a future in fair use doctrine. The faw in the dissent's logic is simple: If
all that mattered under the frst factor were whether a buyer was “drawn
aesthetically” to a secondary work (instead of the pre-existing work it
adapted) or whether the buyer preferred “to convey the message of ” the
secondary work, post, at 567, then every derivative work would qualify.
The New Yorker might prefer an unauthorized sequel to a short story,
rather than the original, but that does not mean the purpose and character
of the use would weigh in its favor. Similarly, a rap label might prefer 2
Live Crew's song, rather than Orbison's original, based on the new sound
and lyrics (i. e., new aesthetic and message), but that was not enough in
Campbell, and it is not enough here.
12
In this way, the frst factor relates to the fourth, market effect. See
Campbell, 510 U. S., at 591; cf. also Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 568 (“The
excerpts were employed as featured episodes in a story about the Nixon
pardon—precisely the use petitioners had licensed to Time”). While the
frst factor considers whether and to what extent an original work and
secondary use have substitutable purposes, the fourth factor focuses on
actual or potential market substitution. Under both factors, the analysis
here might be different if Orange Prince appeared in an art magazine
 Cite as: 598 U. S. 508 (2023) 537

Opinion of the Court

The use also “is of a commercial nature.” § 107(1). Just
as Goldsmith licensed her photograph to Vanity Fair for $400,
AWF licensed Orange Prince to Condé Nast for $10,000.
The undisputed commercial character of AWF's use, though
not dispositive, “tends to weigh against a fnding of fair use.”
Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 562.13
Taken together, these two elements—that Goldsmith's
photograph and AWF's 2016 licensing of Orange Prince share

alongside an article about Warhol. Brief for United States as Amicus
Curiae 33.
While keenly grasping the relationship between The Two Lolitas, the
dissent fumbles the relationship between the frst and fourth fair use fac-
tors. Under today's decision, as before, the frst factor does not ask
whether a secondary use causes a copyright owner economic harm. Cf.
post, at 578 (opinion of Kagan, J.). There is, however, a positive associa-
tion between the two factors: A secondary use that is more different in
purpose and character is less likely to usurp demand for the original work
or its derivatives, as the Court has explained, see Campbell, 519 U. S.,
Page Proof Pending Publication
at 591. This relationship should be fairly obvious. But see post, at 578–
579 (Kagan, J., dissenting) (suggesting that the frst factor can favor only
the user and the fourth factor only the copyright owner). Still, the rela-
tionship is not absolute. For example, copies for classroom use might ful-
fll demand for an original work. The frst factor may still favor the copy-
ist, even if the fourth factor is shown not to. At the same time, other
forms of straight copying may be fair if a strong showing on the fourth
factor outweighs a weak showing on the frst.
13
The dissent misconstrues the role of commercialism in this analysis.
The Court does not hold that “[a]ll that matters is that [AWF] and the
publisher entered into a licensing transaction”; or that the frst-factor in-
quiry “should disregard Warhol's creative contributions because he li-
censed his work”; or that an artist may not “market even a transformative
follow-on work.” Post, at 560, 576, 591 (opinion of Kagan, J.). Instead,
consistent with the statute, “whether [a] use is of a commercial nature or
is for nonproft educational purposes” is one element of the frst factor,
§ 107(1); it does not dispose of that factor, much less the fair use inquiry. As
this opinion makes clear, the commercial character of a secondary use should
be weighed against the extent to which the use is transformative or other-
wise justifed. Supra, at 531 (citing Campbell, 510 U. S., at 579–580, 585);
see also supra, at 525, 532–533, and n. 8, 537–538; infra, at 546–547.
538 ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR VISUAL ARTS, INC.
v. GOLDSMITH
Opinion of the Court
