Produced by Ted Garvin, Fred Robinson and the PG Online Distributed
Proofreading Team

                              SOPHOCLES

                                 THE
                     SEVEN PLAYS IN ENGLISH VERSE

                                  BY
                         LEWIS CAMPBELL, M.A.

                       HON. LL.D., HON. D.LITT.
     EMERITUS PROFESSOR OF GREEK IN THE UNIVERSITY OF ST. ANDREWS
                HON. FELLOW OF BALLIOL COLLEGE, OXFORD

                 [Illustration: THE WORLD'S CLASSICS]

                         NEW EDITION, REVISED

                             HENRY FROWDE
                       OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
                     LONDON, NEW YORK AND TORONTO

                              SOPHOCLES

              Born at Colonos         probably 495 B.C.
              Died                    406 B.C.

_The present translation was first published in 'The World's Classics'
                              in 1906._

                Sie hoeren nicht die folgenden Gesaenge,
                Die Seelen, denen ich die ersten sang.

                               CONTENTS

                PREFACE
                PREFATORY NOTE TO THE EDITION OF 1883

                ANTIGONE
                AIAS
                KING OEDIPUS
                ELECTRA
                THE TRACHINIAN MAIDENS
                PHILOCTETES
                OEDIPUS AT COLONOS
                NOTES

                  *       *       *       *       *

                               PREFACE

In 1869, having read the Antigone with a pupil who at the time had a
passion for the stage, I was led to attempt a metrical version of the
_Antigone_, and, by and by, of the Electra and Trachiniae.[1] I had
the satisfaction of seeing this last very beautifully produced by an
amateur company in Scotland in 1877; when Mrs. Fleeming Jenkin may be
said to have 'created' the part of Deanira. Thus encouraged, I
completed the translation of the seven plays, which was published by
Kegan Paul in 1883 and again by Murray in 1896. I have now to thank
Mr. Murray for consenting to this cheaper issue.

The seven extant plays of Sophocles have been variously arranged. In
the order most frequently adopted by English editors, the three plays
of the Theban cycle, Oedipus Tyrannus, Oedipus Coloneus, and Antigone,
have been placed foremost.

In one respect this is obviously convenient, as appearing to present
continuously a connected story. But on a closer view, it is in two
ways illusory.

1. The Antigone is generally admitted to be, comparatively speaking,
an early play, while the Oedipus Coloneus belongs to the dramatist's
latest manner; the first Oedipus coming in somewhere between the two.
The effect is therefore analogous to that produced on readers of
Shakespeare by the habit of placing Henry VI after Henry IV and V. But
tragedies and 'histories' or chronicle plays are not _in pari
materia_.

2. The error has been aggravated by a loose way of speaking of 'the
Theban Trilogy', a term which could only be properly applicable if the
three dramas had been produced in the same year. I have therefore now
arranged the seven plays in an order corresponding to the most
probable dates of their production, viz. Antigone, Aias, King Oedipus,
Electra, Trachiniae, Philoctetes, and Oedipus at Colonos. A credible
tradition refers the Antigone to 445 B.C. The Aias appears to be not
much later--it may even be earlier--than the Antigone. The Philoctetes
was produced in 408 B.C., when the poet was considerably over eighty.
The Oedipus at Colonos has always been believed to be a composition of
Sophocles' old age. It is said to have been produced after his death,
though it may have been composed some years earlier. The tragedy of
King Oedipus, in which the poet's art attained its maturity, is
plausibly assigned to an early year of the Peloponnesian war (say 427
B.C.), the Trachiniae to about 420 B.C. The time of the Electra is
doubtful; but Professor Jebb has shown that, on metrical grounds, it
should be placed after, rather than before, King Oedipus. Even the
English reader, taking the plays as they are grouped in this volume,
may be aware of a gradual change of manner, not unlike what is
perceptible in passing from Richard II to Macbeth, and from Macbeth to
The Winter's Tale or Cymbeline. For although the supposed date of the
Antigone was long subsequent to the poet's first tragic victory, the
forty years over which the seven plays are spread saw many changes of
taste in art and literature.

Footnote:
  1 _Three Plays of Sophocles:_ Blackwood, 1873.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                        PREFATORY NOTE TO THE
                           EDITION OF 1883

I. The Hellenic spirit has been repeatedly characterized as simple
Nature-worship. Even the Higher Paganism has been described as 'in
other words the purified worship of natural forms.'[1] One might
suppose, in reading some modern writers, that the Nymphs and Fauns,
the River-Gods and Pan, were at least as prominent in all Greek poetry
as Zeus, Apollo, and Athena, or that Apollo was only the sweet singer
and not also the prophet of retribution.

The fresh and unimpaired enjoyment of the Beautiful is certainly the
aspect of ancient life and literature which most attracted the
humanists of the sixteenth century, and still most impresses those
amongst ourselves who for various reasons desire to point the contrast
between Paganism and Judaism. The two great groups of forces vaguely
known as the Renaissance and the Revolution have both contributed to
this result. Men who were weary of conventionality and of the weight
of custom 'heavy as frost and deep almost as life,' have longed for
the vision of 'Oread or Dryad glancing through the shade,' or to 'hear
old Triton blow his wreathed horn.' Meanwhile, that in which the
Greeks most resembled us, 'the human heart by which we live,' for the
very reason that it lies so near to us, is too apt to be lost from our
conception of them. Another cause of this one-sided view is the
illusion produced by the contemplation of statuary, together with the
unapproachable perfection of form which every relic of Greek antiquity
indisputably possesses.

But on turning from the forms of Greek art to the substance of Greek
literature, we find that Beauty, although everywhere an important
element, is by no means the sole or even the chief attribute of the
greatest writings, nor is the Hellenic consciousness confined within
the life of Nature, unless this term is allowed to comprehend man with
all his thoughts and aspirations. It was in this latter sense that
Hegel recognized the union of depth with brightness in Greek culture:
'If the first paradise was the paradise of nature, this is the second,
the higher paradise of the human spirit, which in its fair
naturalness, freedom, depth and brightness here comes forth like a
bride out of her chamber. The first wild majesty of the rise of
spiritual life in the East is here circumscribed by the dignity of
form, and softened into beauty. Its depth shows itself no longer in
confusion, obscurity, and inflation, but lies open before us in simple
clearness. Its brightness (Heiterkeit) is not a childish play, but
covers a sadness which knows the baldness of fate but is not by that
knowledge driven out of freedom and measure.' Hegel's Werke, vol. XVI.
p. 139 (translated by Prof. Caird). The simplicity of Herodotus, for
example, does not exclude far reaching thoughts on the political
advantages of liberty, nor such reflections on experience as are
implied in the saying of Artabanus, that the transitoriness of human
life is the least of its evils. And in what modern writing is more of
the wisdom of life condensed than in the History of Thucydides? It is
surely more true to say of Greek literature that it contains types of
all things human, stamped with the freshness, simplicity, and
directness which belong to first impressions, and to the first
impressions of genius.

Now the 'thoughts and aspirations,' which are nowhere absent from
Greek literature, and make a centre of growing warmth and light in its
Periclean period--when the conception of human nature for the first
time takes definite shape--have no less of Religion in them than
underlay the 'creed outworn'. To think otherwise would be an error of
the same kind as that 'abuse of the word Atheism' against which the
author of the work above alluded to protests so forcibly.

Religion, in the sense here indicated, is the mainspring and vital
principle of Tragedy. The efforts of Aeschylus and Sophocles were
sustained by it, and its inevitable decay through the scepticism which
preceded Socrates was the chief hindrance to the tragic genius of
Euripides. Yet the inequality of which we have consequently to
complain in him is redeemed by pregnant hints of something yet 'more
deeply interfused,' which in him, as in his two great predecessors, is
sometimes felt as 'modern,' because it is not of an age but for all
time. The most valuable part of every literature is something which
transcends the period and nation out of which it springs.

On the other hand, much that at first sight seems primitive in Greek
tragedy belongs more to the subject than to the mode of handling. The
age of Pericles was in advance of that in which the legends were first
Hellenized and humanized, just as this must have been already far
removed from the earliest stages of mythopoeic imagination. The reader
of Aeschylus or Sophocles should therefore be warned against
attributing to the poet's invention that which is given in the fable.

An educated student of Italian painting knows how to discriminate--say
in an Assumption by Botticelli--between the traditional conventions,
the contemporary ideas, and the refinements of the artist's own fancy.
The same indulgence must be extended to dramatic art. The tragedy of
King Lear is not rude or primitive, although the subject belongs to
prehistoric times in Britain. Nor is Goethe's Faust mediaeval in
spirit as in theme. So neither is the Oedipus Rex the product of
'lawless and uncertain thoughts,' notwithstanding the unspeakable
horror of the story, but is penetrated by the most profound estimate
of all in human life that is saddest, and all that is most precious.

Far from being naive naturalists after the Keats fashion, the Greek
tragic poets had succeeded to a pessimistic reaction from simple Pagan
enjoyment; they were surrounded with gloomy questionings about human
destiny and Divine Justice, and they replied by looking steadily at
the facts of life and asserting the supreme worth of innocence,
equity, and mercy.

They were not philosophers, for they spoke the language of feeling;
but the civilization of which they were the strongest outcome was
already tinged with influences derived from early philosophy--
especially from the gnomic wisdom of the sixth century and from the
spirit of theosophic speculation, which in Aeschylus goes far even to
recast mythology. The latter influence was probably reinforced,
through channels no longer traceable, by the Eleusinian worship, in
which the mystery of life and death and of human sorrow had replaced
the primitive wonder at the phenomena of the year.

And whatever elements of philosophic theory or mystic exaltation the
drama may have reflected, it was still more emphatically the
repository of some of the most precious traditions of civilized
humanity--traditions which philosophy has sometimes tended to
extenuate, if not to destroy.

Plato's Gorgias contains one of the most eloquent vindications of the
transcendent value of righteousness and faithfulness as such. But when
we ask, 'Righteousness in what relation?'--'Faithfulness to whom?'--
the Gorgias is silent; and when the vacant outline is filled up in the
Republic, we are presented with an ideal of man's social relations,
which, although it may be regarded as the ultimate development of
existing tendencies, yet has no immediate bearing on any actual
condition of the world.

The ideal of the tragic poet may be less perfect; or rather he does
not attempt to set before us abstractedly any single ideal. But the
grand types of character which he presents to the world are not merely
imaginary. They are creatures of flesh and blood, men and women, to
whom the unsullied purity of their homes, the freedom and power of
their country, the respect and love of their fellow-citizens, are
inestimably dear. From a Platonic, and still more from a Christian
point of view, the best morality of the age of Pericles is no doubt
defective. Such counsels of perfection as 'Love your enemies', or 'A
good man can harm no one, not even an enemy',--are beyond the horizon
of tragedy, unless dimly seen in the person of Antigone. The
coexistence of savage vindictiveness with the most affectionate
tenderness is characteristic of heroes and heroines alike, and
produces some of the most moving contrasts. But the tenderness is no
less deep and real for this, and while the chief persons are thus
passionate, the Greek lesson of moderation and reasonableness is
taught by the event, whether expressed or not by the mouth of sage or
prophet or of the 'ideal bystander'.

Greek tragedy, then, is a religious art, not merely because associated
with the festival of Dionysus, nor because the life which it
represented was that of men who believed, with all the Hellenes, in
Zeus, Apollo, and Athena, or in the power of Moira and the Erinyes,--
not merely because it represented

           'the dread strife
     Of poor humanity's afflicted will
     Struggling in vain with ruthless destiny,'

but much more because it awakened in the Athenian spectator emotions
of wonder concerning human life, and of admiration for nobleness in
the unfortunate--a sense of the infinite value of personal uprightness
and of domestic purity--which in the most universal sense of the word
were truly religious,--because it expressed a consciousness of depths
which Plato never fathomed, and an ideal of character which, if less
complete than Shakespeare's, is not less noble. It is indeed a 'rough'
generalization that ranks the Agamemnon with the Adoniazusae as a
religious composition.

II. This spiritual side of tragic poetry deserves to be emphasized
both as the most essential aspect of it, and as giving it the most
permanent claim to lasting recognition. And yet, apart from this,
merely as dramas, the works of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides
will never cease to be admired. These poets are teachers, but they
teach through art. To ask simply, as Carlyle once did, 'What did they
think?' is not the way to understand or learn from them.

Considered simply as works of art, the plays of Sophocles stand alone
amongst dramatic writings in their degree of concentration and complex
unity.

1. The interest of a Sophoclean drama is always intensely personal,
and is almost always centred in an individual destiny. In other words,
it is not historical or mythical, but ethical. Single persons stand
out magnificently in Aeschylus. But the action is always larger than
any single life. Each tragedy or trilogy resembles the fragment of a
sublime Epic poem. Mighty issues revolve about the scene, whether this
is laid on Earth or amongst the Gods, issues far transcending the fate
of Orestes or even of Prometheus. In the perspective painting of
Sophocles, these vast surroundings fall into the background, and the
feelings of the spectator are absorbed in sympathy with the chief
figure on the stage, round whom the other characters--the members of
the chorus being included--are grouped with the minutest care.

2. In this grouping of the persons, as well as in the conduct of the
action, Sophocles is masterly in his use of pathetic contrast. This
motive must of course enter into all tragedy--nothing can be finer
than the contrast of Cassandra to Clytemnestra in the Agamemnon,--but
in Sophocles it is all-pervading, and some of the minor effects of it
are so subtle that although inevitably felt by the spectator they are
often lost upon the mere reader or student. And every touch, however
transient, is made to contribute to the main effect.

To recur once more to the much-abused analogy of statuary:--the work
of Aeschylus may be compared to a colossal frieze, while that of
Sophocles resembles the pediment of a smaller temple. Or if, as in
considering the Orestean trilogy, the arrangement of the pediment
affords the more fitting parallel even for Aeschylus, yet the forms
are so gigantic that minute touches of characterization and of
contrast are omitted as superfluous. Whereas in Sophocles, it is at
once the finish of the chief figure and the studied harmony of the
whole, which have led his work to be compared with that of his
contemporary Phidias. Such comparison, however, is useful by way of
illustration merely. It must never be forgotten that, as Lessing
pointed out to some who thought the Philoctetes too sensational,
analogies between the arts are limited by essential differences of
material and of scope. All poetry represents successive moments. Its
figures are never in repose. And although the action of Tragedy is
concentrated and revolves around a single point, yet it is a dull
vision that confounds rapidity of motion with rest.

3. Sophocles found the subjects of his dramas already embodied not
only in previous tragedies but in Epic and Lyric poetry. And there
were some fables, such as that of the death of Oedipus at Colonos,
which seem to have been known to him only through oral tradition. For
some reason which is not clearly apparent, both he and Aeschylus drew
more largely from the Cyclic poets than from 'our Homer'. The inferior
and more recent Epics, which are now lost, were probably more
episodical, and thus presented a more inviting repertory of legends
than the Iliad and Odyssey.

Arctinus of Lesbos had treated at great length the story of the House
of Thebes. The legend of Orestes, to which there are several
allusions, not always consistent with each other, in the Homeric
poems, had been a favourite and fruitful subject of tradition and of
poetical treatment in the intervening period. Passages of the Tale of
Troy, in which other heroes than Achilles had the pre-eminence, had
been elaborated by Lesches and other Epic writers of the Post-Homeric
time. The voyage of the Argonauts, another favourite heroic theme,
supplied the subjects of many dramas which have disappeared. Lastly,
the taking of Oechalia by Heracles, and the events which followed it,
had been narrated in a long poem, in which one version of that hero's
multiform legend was fully set forth.

The subjects of the King Oedipus, Oedipus at Colonos, and Antigone,
are taken from the Tale of Thebes, the Aias and the Philoctetes are
founded on incidents between the end of the Iliad and the taking of
Troy, the Electra represents the vengeance of Orestes, the crowning
event in the tale of 'Pelops' line', the Trachiniae recounts the last
crisis in the life of Heracles.

4. Of the three Theban plays, the Antigone was first composed,
although its subject is the latest. Aeschylus in the Seven against
Thebes had already represented the young heroine as defying the
victorious citizens who forbade the burial of her brother, the rebel
Polynices. He allowed her to be supported in her action by a band of
sympathizing friends. But in the play of Sophocles she stands alone,
and the power which she defies is not that of the citizens generally,
but of Creon, whose will is absolute in the State. Thus the struggle
is intensified, and both her strength and her desolation become more
impressive, while the opposing claims of civic authority and domestic
piety are more vividly realized, because either is separately embodied
in an individual will. By the same means the situation is humanized to
the last degree, and the heart of the spectator, although strained to
the uttermost with pity for the heroic maiden whose life when full of
brightest hopes was sacrificed to affection and piety, has still some
feeling left for the living desolation of the man, whose patriotic
zeal, degenerating into tyranny, brought his city to the brink of
ruin, and cost him the lives of his two sons and of his wife, whose
dying curse, as well as that of Haemon, is denounced upon him.

In the Oedipus Tyrannus, Sophocles goes back to the central crisis of
the Theban story. And again he fixes our attention, not so much on the
fortunes of the city, or of the reigning house, as on the man Oedipus,
his glory and his fall.--

     'O mirror of our fickle state
     Since man on earth unparalleled!
     The rarer thy example stands,
     By how much from the top of wondrous glory,
     Strongest of mortal men,
     To lowest pitch of abject fortune thou art fallen[2].

The horror and the pity of it are both enhanced by the character of
Oedipus--his essential innocence, his affectionateness, his
uncalculating benevolence and public spirit;--while his impetuosity
and passionateness make the sequel less incredible.

The essential innocence of Oedipus, which survives the ruin of his
hopes in this world, supplies the chief motive of the Oedipus at
Colonos. This drama, which Sophocles is said to have written late in
life, is in many ways contrasted with the former Oedipus. It begins
with pity and horror, and ends with peace. It is only in part founded
on Epic tradition, the main incident belonging apparently to the local
mythology of the poet's birthplace. It also implies a later stage of
ethical reflection, and in this respect resembles the Philoctetes; it
depends more on lyrical and melodramatic effects, and allows more room
for collateral and subsidiary motives than any other of the seven. Yet
in its principal theme, the vindication or redemption of an
essentially noble spirit from the consequences of error, it repeats a
note which had been struck much earlier in the Aias with great force,
although with some crudities of treatment which are absent from the
later drama.

5. In one of the Epic poems which narrated the fall of Troy, the
figure of Aias was more prominent than in the Iliad. He alone and
unassisted was there said to have repulsed Hector from the ships, and
he had the chief share, although in this he was aided by Odysseus, in
rescuing the dead body of Achilles. Yet Achilles' arms were awarded by
the votes of the chieftains, as the prize of valour, not to Aias, but
to Odysseus. This, no doubt, meant that wisdom is better than
strength. But the wisdom of Odysseus in these later Epics was often
less nobly esteemed than in the Iliad and Odyssey, and was represented
as alloyed with cunning.

Aias has withdrawn with his Salaminians, in a rage, from the fight,
and after long brooding by the ships his wrath has broken forth into a
blaze which would have endangered the lives of Odysseus and the
Atridae, had not Athena in her care for them changed his anger into
madness. Hence, instead of slaying the generals, he makes havoc
amongst the flocks and herds, which as the result of various forays
were the common property of the whole army. The truth is discovered by
Odysseus with the help of Athena, and from being next to Achilles in
renown, Aias becomes the object of universal scorn and hatred. The
sequel of this hour of his downfall is the subject of the Aias of
Sophocles. After lamenting his fate, the hero eludes the vigilance of
his captive bride Tecmessa, and of his Salaminian mariners, and, in
complete solitude, falls upon his sword. He is found by Tecmessa and
by his half-brother Teucer, who has returned too late from a raid in
the Mysian highlands. The Atridae would prohibit Aias' funeral; but
Odysseus, who has been specially enlightened by Athena, advises
generous forbearance, and his counsel prevails. The part representing
the disgrace and death of Aias is more affecting to modern readers
than the remainder of the drama. But we should bear in mind that the
vindication of Aias after death, and his burial with undiminished
honours, had an absorbing interest for the Athenian and Salaminian
spectator.

Philoctetes also is rejected by man and accepted by Destiny. The
Argives in his case, as the Thebans in the case of Oedipus, are blind
to the real intentions of the Gods.

The Philoctetes, like the Oedipus at Colonos, was a work of Sophocles'
old age; and while it can hardly be said that the fire of tragic
feeling is abated in either of these plays, dramatic effect is
modified in both of them by the influence of the poet's contemplative
mood. The interest of the action in the Philoctetes is more inward and
psychological than in any other ancient drama. The change of mind in
Neoptolemus, the stubborn fixity of will in Philoctetes, contrasted
with the confiding tenderness of his nature, form the elements of a
dramatic movement at once extremely simple and wonderfully sustained.
No purer ideal of virtuous youth has been imagined than the son of
Achilles, who in this play, though sorely tempted, sets faithfulness
before ambition.

6. In the Electra, which, though much earlier than the Philoctetes, is
still a work of his mature genius, our poet appears at first sight to
be in unequal competition with Aeschylus. If the Theban trilogy of the
elder poet had remained entire, a similar impression might have been
produced by the Oedipus Tyrannus. It is best to lay such comparisons
aside, and to consider the work of Sophocles simply on its own merits.
The subject, as he has chosen to treat it, is the heroic endurance of
a woman who devotes her life to the vindication of intolerable wrongs
done to her father, and the restoration of her young brother to his
hereditary rights. Hers is the human agency which for this purpose
works together with Apollo. But the divine intention is concealed from
her. She suffers countless indignities from her father's enemies, of
whom her own mother is the chief. And, at length, all her hopes are
shattered by the false tidings that Orestes is no more. Even then she
does not relinquish her resolve. And the revulsion from her deep
sorrow to extremity of joy, when she finds Orestes at her side and
ready to perform the act of vengeance in his own person, is
irresistably affecting, even when the play is only read.

Sophocles is especially great in the delineation of ideal female
characters. The heroic ardour of Antigone, and the no less heroic
persistence and endurance of Electra, are both founded on the strength
of their affection. And the affection in both cases is what some
moderns too have called the purest of human feelings, the love of a
sister for a brother. Another aspect of that world-old marvel, 'the
love of women,' was presented in Aias' captive bride, Tecmessa. This
softer type also attains to heroic grandeur in Deanira, the wronged
wife of Heracles, whose fatal error is caused by the innocent working
of her wounded love.

It is strange that so acute a critic as A.W. Schlegel should have
doubted the Sophoclean authorship of the Trachiniae. If its religious
and moral lessons are even less obtrusive than those of either Oedipus
and of the Antigone, there is no play which more directly pierces to
the very heart of humanity. And it is a superficial judgement which
complains that here at all events our sympathies are distracted
between the two chief persons, Deanira and Heracles. To one passion of
his, to one fond mistake of hers, the ruin of them both is due. Her
love has made their fates inseparable. And the spectator, in sharing
Hyllus' grief, is afflicted for them both at once. We may well
recognize in this treatment of the death of Heracles the hand of him
who wrote--

[Greek:
     su kai dikaion adikous
     phrenas paraspas epi loba,
     ..., ...
     amachos gar empaizei theos Aphrodita[3].]

7. It is unnecessary to expatiate here on the merits of construction
in which these seven plays are generally acknowledged to be
unrivalled; the natural way in which the main situation is explained,
the suddenness and inevitableness of the complications, the steadily
sustained climax of emotion until the action culminates, the
preservation of the fitting mood until the end, the subtlety and
effectiveness of the minor contrasts of situation and character[4].

But it may not be irrelevant to observe that the 'acting qualities' of
Sophocles, as of Shakespeare, are best known to those who have seen
him acted, whether in Greek, as by the students at Harvard[5] and
Toronto[6], and more recently at Cambridge[7], or in English long ago
by Miss Helen Faucit (since Lady Martin[8]), or still earlier and
repeatedly in Germany, or in the French version of the Antigone by MM.
Maurice and Vacquerie (1845) or of King Oedipus by M. Lacroix, in
which the part of OEdipe Roi was finely sustained by M. Geoffroy in
1861, and by M. Mounet Sully in 1881[9]. With reference to the latter
performance, which was continued throughout the autumn season, M.
Francisque Sarcey wrote an article for the _Temps_ newspaper of August
15, 1881, which is full of just and vivid appreciation. At the risk of
seeming absurdly 'modern', I will quote from this article some of the
more striking passages.

     'Ce troisieme et ce quatrieme actes, les plus emouvants qui se
     soient jamais produits sur aucune scene, se composent d'une suite
     de narrations, qui viennent l'une apres l'autre frapper au coeur
     d'OEdipe, et qui ont leur contrecoup dans l'ame des spectateurs.
     Je ne sais qu'une piece au monde qui soit construite de la sorte,
     c'est l'_Ecole des Femmes_. Ce rapprochement vous paraitra
     singulier, sans doute.... Mais ... c'est dans le vieux drame grec
     comme dans la comedie du maitre francais une trouvaille de
     genie....

     'Sophocle a voulu, apres des emotions si terribles, apres des
     angoisses si seches, ouvrir la source des larmes: il a ecrit un
     cinquieme acte....

     'Les yeux creves d'OEdipe ne sont qu'un accident, ou, si vous
     aimez mieux, un accessoire, Le poete, sans s'arreter a ce detail,
     a mis sur les levres de son heros toute la gamme des sentiments
     douloureux qu'excite une si prodigieuse infortune....

     'A la lecture, elle est un pen longue cette scene de
     lamentations. Au theatre, on n'a pas le temps de la trouver
     telle: on pleure de toute son ame et de tous ses yeux. C'est
     qu'apres avoir eu le coeur si longtemps serre comme dans un etau,
     on epreuve comme un soulagement a sentir en soi jaillir la source
     des larmes. Sophocle, qui semble avoir ete le plus malin des
     dramaturges, comme il est le plus parfait des ecrivains
     dramatiques, a cherche la un effet de contraste dont l'effet est
     immanquant sur le public.'

These and other like remarks of one of the best-known critics of the
Parisian stage show that the dramatic art of Sophocles is still a
living power.

I am well aware how feeble and inadequate the present attempted
reproduction must appear to any reader who knows the Greek original.
There is much to be said for the view of an eminent scholar who once
declared that he would never think of translating a Greek poet. But
the end of translating is not to satisfy fastidious scholars, but to
make the classics partially accessible to those whose acquaintance
with them would otherwise be still more defective. Part of this
version of Sophocles was printed several years ago in an imperfect
form. The present volume contains the seven extant plays entire. As
the object has been to give the effect of each drama as a whole,
rather than to dwell on particular 'beauties' (which only a poet can
render), the fragments have not been included. But the reader should
bear in mind that the seven plays are less than a tithe of the work
produced by the poet in his lifetime.

It may very possibly be asked why verse has been employed at all. Why
not have listened to Carlyle's rough demand, 'Tell us what they
thought; none of your silly poetry'? The present translator can only
reply that he began with prose, but soon found that, for tragic
dialogue in English, blank verse appeared a more natural and effective
vehicle than any prose style which he could hope to frame. And with
the dialogue in verse, it was impossible to have the lyric parts in
any sort of prose, simply because the reader would then have felt an
intolerable incongruity. These parts have therefore been turned into
such familiar lyric measures as seemed at once possible and not
unsuitable. And where this method was found impracticable, as
sometimes in the _Commoi_, blank metres have again been used,--with
such liberties as seemed appropriate to the special purpose. The
writer's hope throughout has been, not indeed fully to transfuse the
poetry of Sophocles into another tongue, but to make the poet's
dramatic intention to be understood and felt by English readers. One
more such endeavour may possibly find acceptance at a time when many
causes have combined to awaken a fresh interest at once in dramatic
literature and in Hellenic studies.

The reader who is hitherto unacquainted with the Greek drama, should
be warned that the parts assigned to the 'Chorus' were often
distributed among its several members, who spoke or chanted, singly or
in groups, alternately or in succession. In some cases, but not in
all, _Ch. 1_, _Ch. 2_, &c., have been prefixed, to indicate such an
arrangement.

Footnotes:
  1 [Sir John Seeley's] _Natural Religion_, p. 79.

  2 Milton, _Samson Agonistes_, 164-169.

  3        'Thou drawest awry
    Just minds to wrong and ruin ...
                 ... With resistless charm
    Great Aphrodite mocks the might of men.'
                                             _Antigone._

  4 Cf. _Sophocles_ in Green's 'Classical Writers.' Macmillan & Co.

  5 Oed. Tyr., 1881.

  6 Antigone, 1882.

  7 Ajax, Nov. 1882.

  8 Antigone, 1845.

  9 The performance of Greek plays (as of the Agamemnon at Oxford in
    1880) is not altogether a new thing in England. The author of Ion,
    Mr. Serjeant Talfourd, in his Notice prefixed to that drama in
    1836, mentions, amongst other reasons for having intended to
    dedicate it to Dr. Valpy, 'the exquisite representations of Greek
    Tragedy, which he superintended,' and which 'made his images
    vital.' At a still earlier time, 'the great Dr. Parr' had
    encouraged his pupils at Stanmore to recite the dialogue of Greek
    tragedies before an audience and in costume. It would be
    ungrateful to omit all reference here to some performances of the
    Trachiniae in English in Edinburgh and St. Andrews in 1877, which,
    though not of a public nature, are still remembered with delight
    by those who were present at them, and were really the first of a
    series.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                               ANTIGONE

                             THE PERSONS

ANTIGONE,} _Daughters of Oedipus and Sisters of Polynices_
ISMENE,  }                 _and Eteocles._
CHORUS _of Theban Elders._
CREON, _King of Thebes._
_A Watchman._
HAEMON, _Son of Creon, betrothed to Antigone._
TIRESIAS, _the blind Prophet._
_A Messenger._
EURYDICE, _the Wife of Creon._
_Another Messenger._

SCENE. Before the Cadmean Palace at Thebes.

_Note._ The town of Thebes is often personified as Thebe.

Polynices, son and heir to the unfortunate Oedipus, having been
supplanted by his younger brother Eteocles, brought an army of Argives
against his native city, Thebes. The army was defeated, and the two
brothers slew each other in single combat. On this Creon, the brother-
in-law of Oedipus, succeeding to the chief power, forbade the burial
of Polynices. But Antigone, sister of the dead, placing the dues of
affection and piety before her obligation to the magistrate, disobeyed
the edict at the sacrifice of her life. Creon carried out his will,
but lost his son Haemon and his wife Eurydice, and received their
curses on his head. His other son, Megareus, had previously been
devoted as a victim to the good of the state.

                               ANTIGONE

ANTIGONE. ISMENE.

ANTIGONE. Own sister of my blood, one life with me,
Ismene, have the tidings caught thine ear?
Say, hath not Heaven decreed to execute
On thee and me, while yet we are alive,
All the evil Oedipus bequeathed? All horror,
All pain, all outrage, falls on us! And now
The General's proclamation of to-day--
Hast thou not heard?--Art thou so slow to hear
When harm from foes threatens the souls we love?

ISMENE. No word of those we love, Antigone,
Painful or glad, hath reached me, since we two
Were utterly deprived of our two brothers,
Cut off with mutual stroke, both in one day.
And since the Argive host this now-past night
Is vanished, I know nought beside to make me
Nearer to happiness or more in woe.

ANT. I knew it well, and therefore led thee forth
The palace gate, that thou alone mightst hear.

ISM. Speak on! Thy troubled look bodes some dark news.

ANT. Why, hath not Creon, in the burial-rite,
Of our two brethren honoured one, and wrought
On one foul wrong? Eteocles, they tell,
With lawful consecration he lays out,
And after covers him in earth, adorned
With amplest honours in the world below.
But Polynices, miserably slain,
They say 'tis publicly proclaimed that none
Must cover in a grave, nor mourn for him;
But leave him tombless and unwept, a store
Of sweet provision for the carrion fowl
That eye him greedily. Such righteous law
Good Creon hath pronounced for thy behoof--
Ay, and for mine! I am not left out!--And now
He moves this way to promulgate his will
To such as have not heard, nor lightly holds
The thing he bids, but, whoso disobeys,
The citizens shall stone him to the death.
This is the matter, and thou wilt quickly show
If thou art noble, or fallen below thy birth.

ISM. Unhappy one! But what can I herein
Avail to do or undo?

ANT.                 Wilt thou share
The danger and the labour? Make thy choice.

ISM. Of what wild enterprise? What canst thou mean?

ANT. Wilt thou join hand with mine to lift the dead?

ISM. To bury him, when all have been forbidden?
Is that thy thought?

ANT.                 To bury my own brother
And thine, even though thou wilt not do thy part.
I will not be a traitress to my kin.

ISM. Fool-hardy girl! against the word of Creon?

ANT. He hath no right to bar me from mine own.

ISM. Ah, sister, think but how our father fell,
Hated of all and lost to fair renown,
Through self-detected crimes--with his own hand,
Self-wreaking, how he dashed out both his eyes:
Then how the mother-wife, sad two-fold name!
With twisted halter bruised her life away,
Last, how in one dire moment our two brothers
With internecine conflict at a blow
Wrought out by fratricide their mutual doom.
Now, left alone, O think how beyond all
Most piteously we twain shall be destroyed,
If in defiance of authority
We traverse the commandment of the King!
We needs must bear in mind we are but women,
Never created to contend with men;
Nay more, made victims of resistless power,
To obey behests more harsh than this to-day.
I, then, imploring those beneath to grant
Indulgence, seeing I am enforced in this,
Will yield submission to the powers that rule,
Small wisdom were it to overpass the bound.

ANT. I will not urge you! no! nor if now you list
To help me, will your help afford me joy.
Be what you choose to be! This single hand
Shall bury our lost brother. Glorious
For me to take this labour and to die!
Dear to him will my soul be as we rest
In death, when I have dared this holy crime.
My time for pleasing men will soon be over;
Not so my duty toward the Dead! My home
Yonder will have no end. You, if you will,
May pour contempt on laws revered on High.

ISM. Not from irreverence. But I have no strength
To strive against the citizens' resolve.

ANT. Thou, make excuses! I will go my way
To raise a burial-mound to my dear brother.

ISM. Oh, hapless maiden, how I fear for thee!

ANT. Waste not your fears on me! Guide your own fortune.

ISM. Ah! yet divulge thine enterprise to none,
But keep the secret close, and so will I.

ANT. O Heavens! Nay, tell! I hate your silence worse;
I had rather you proclaimed it to the world.

ISM. You are ardent in a chilling enterprise.

ANT. I know that I please those whom I would please.

ISM. Yes, if you thrive; but your desire is bootless.

ANT. Well, when I fail I shall be stopt, I trow!

ISM. One should not start upon a hopeless quest.

ANT. Speak in that vein if you would earn my hate
And aye be hated of our lost one. Peace!
Leave my unwisdom to endure this peril;
Fate cannot rob me of a noble death.

ISM. Go, if you must--Not to be checked in folly,
But sure unparalleled in faithful love!                      [_Exeunt_

CHORUS (_entering_).
    Beam of the mounting Sun!                                      I 1
  O brightest, fairest ray
  Seven-gated Thebe yet hath seen!
  Over the vale where Dirce's fountains run
  At length thou appearedst, eye of golden Day,
  And with incitement of thy radiance keen
        Spurredst to faster flight
  The man of Argos hurrying from the fight.
  Armed at all points the warrior came,
  But driven before thy rising flame
  He rode, reverting his pale shield,
  Headlong from yonder battlefield.

  In snow-white panoply, on eagle wing,                 [_Half-Chorus_
  He rose, dire ruin on our land to bring,
        Roused by the fierce debate
        Of Polynices' hate,
  Shrilling sharp menace from his breast,
  Sheathed all in steel from crown to heel,
  With many a plumed crest.

  Then stooped above the domes,                                    I 2
  With lust of carnage fired,
  And opening teeth of serried spears
  Yawned wide around the gates that guard our homes;
  But went, or e'er his hungry jaws had tired
  On Theban flesh,--or e'er the Fire-god fierce
        Seizing our sacred town
  Besmirched and rent her battlemented crown.
  Such noise of battle as he fled
  About his back the War-god spread;
  So writhed to hard-fought victory
  The serpent[1] struggling to be free.

  High Zeus beheld their stream that proudly rolled     [_Half-Chorus_
  Idly caparisoned[2] with clanking gold:
        Zeus hates the boastful tongue:
        He with hurled fire down flung
  One who in haste had mounted high,
  And that same hour from topmost tower
        Upraised the exulting cry.

  Swung rudely to the hard repellent earth                        II 1
  Amidst his furious mirth
  He fell, who then with flaring brand
        Held in his fiery hand
  Came breathing madness at the gate
        In eager blasts of hate.
  And doubtful swayed the varying fight
  Through the turmoil of the night,
  As turning now on these and now on those
  Ares hurtled 'midst our foes,
  Self-harnessed helper[3] on our right.

  Seven matched with seven, at each gate one,           [_Half-Chorus_
  Their captains, when the day was done,
  Left for our Zeus who turned the scale,
  The brazen tribute in full tale:--
  All save the horror-burdened pair,
        Dire children of despair,
  Who from one sire, one mother, drawing breath,
  Each with conquering lance in rest
  Against a true born brother's breast,
        Found equal lots in death.

  But with blithe greeting to glad Thebe came                     II 2
  She of the glorious name,
  Victory,--smiling on our chariot throng
        With eyes that waken song
  Then let those battle memories cease,
        Silenced by thoughts of peace.
  With holy dances of delight
  Lasting through the livelong night
  Visit we every shrine, in solemn round,
  Led by him who shakes the ground,
  Our Bacchus, Thebe's child of light.

LEADER OF CHORUS.
  But look! where Creon in his new-made power,
  Moved by the fortune of the recent hour,
  Comes with fresh counsel. What intelligence
  Intends he for our private conference,
  That he hath sent his herald to us all,
  Gathering the elders with a general call?

_Enter_ CREON.

CREON. My friends, the noble vessel of our State,
After sore shaking her, the Gods have sped
On a smooth course once more. I have called you hither,
By special messengers selecting you
From all the city, first, because I knew you
Aye loyal to the throne of Laius;
Then, both while Oedipus gave prosperous days,
And since his fall, I still beheld you firm
In sound allegiance to the royal issue.
Now since the pair have perished in an hour,
Twinned in misfortune, by a mutual stroke
Staining our land with fratricidal blood,
All rule and potency of sovereign sway,
In virtue of next kin to the deceased,
Devolves on me. But hard it is to learn
The mind of any mortal or the heart,
Till he be tried in chief authority.
Power shows the man. For he who when supreme
Withholds his hand or voice from the best cause,
Being thwarted by some fear, that man to me
Appears, and ever hath appeared, most vile.
He too hath no high place in mine esteem,
Who sets his friend before his fatherland.
Let Zeus whose eye sees all eternally
Be here my witness. I will ne'er keep silence
When danger lours upon my citizens
Who looked for safety, nor make him my friend
Who doth not love my country. For I know
Our country carries us, and whilst her helm
Is held aright we gain good friends and true.
  Following such courses 'tis my steadfast will
To foster Thebe's greatness, and therewith
In brotherly accord is my decree
Touching the sons of Oedipus. The man--
Eteocles I mean--who died for Thebes
Fighting with eminent prowess on her side,
Shall be entombed with every sacred rite
That follows to the grave the lordliest dead.
But for his brother, who, a banished man,
Returned to devastate and burn with fire
The land of his nativity, the shrines
Of his ancestral gods, to feed him fat
With Theban carnage, and make captive all
That should escape the sword--for Polynices,
This law hath been proclaimed concerning him:
He shall have no lament, no funeral,
But he unburied, for the carrion fowl
And dogs to eat his corse, a sight of shame.
  Such are the motions of this mind and will.
Never from me shall villains reap renown
Before the just. But whoso loves the State,
I will exalt him both in life and death.

CH. Son of Menoeceus, we have heard thy mind
Toward him who loves, and him who hates our city.
And sure, 'tis thine to enforce what law thou wilt
Both on the dead and all of us who live.

CR. Then be ye watchful to maintain my word.

CH. Young strength for such a burden were more meet.

CR. Already there be watchers of the dead.

CH. What charge then wouldst thou further lay on us?

CR. Not to give place to those that disobey.

CH. Who is so fond, to be in love with death?

CR. Such, truly, is the meed. But hope of gain
Full oft ere now hath been the ruin of men.

WATCHMAN (_entering_).
  My lord, I am out of breath, but not with speed.
I will not say my foot was fleet. My thoughts
Cried halt unto me ever as I came
And wheeled me to return. My mind discoursed
Most volubly within my breast, and said--
Fond wretch! why go where thou wilt find thy bane?
Unhappy wight! say, wilt thou bide aloof?
Then if the king shall hear this from another,
How shalt thou 'scape for 't? Winding thus about
I hasted, but I could not speed, and so
Made a long journey of a little way.
At last 'yes' carried it, that I should come
To thee; and tell thee I must needs; and shall,
Though it be nothing that I have to tell.
For I came hither, holding fast by this--
Nought that is not my fate can happen to me.

CR. Speak forth thy cause of fear. What is the matter?

WATCH. First of mine own part in the business. For
I did it not, nor saw the man who did,
And 'twere not right that I should come to harm.

CR. You fence your ground, and keep well out of danger;
I see you have some strange thing to declare.

WATCH. A man will shrink who carries words of fear.

CB. Let us have done with you. Tell your tale, and go.

WATCH. Well, here it is. The corse hath burial
From some one who is stolen away and gone,
But first hath strown dry dust upon the skin,
And added what religious rites require.

CR. Ha!
What man hath been so daring in revolt?

WATCH. I cannot tell. There was no mark to show--
No dint of spade, or mattock-loosened sod,--
Only the hard bare ground, untilled and trackless.
Whoe'er he was, the doer left no trace.
And, when the scout of our first daylight watch
Showed us the thing, we marvelled in dismay.
The Prince was out of sight; not in a grave,
But a thin dust was o'er him, as if thrown
By one who shunned the dead man's curse. No sign
Appeared of any hound or beast o' the field
Having come near, or pulled at the dead body.
Then rose high words among us sentinels
With bickering noise accusing each his mate,
And it seemed like to come to blows, with none
To hinder. For the hand that thus had wrought
Was any of ours, and none; the guilty man
Escaped all knowledge. And we were prepared
To lift hot iron with our bare palms; to walk
Through fire, and swear by all the Gods at once
That we were guiltless, ay, and ignorant
Of who had plotted or performed this thing.
  When further search seemed bootless, at the last
One spake, whose words bowed all our heads to the earth
With fear. We knew not what to answer him,
Nor how to do it and prosper. He advised
So grave a matter must not be concealed,
But instantly reported to the King.
  Well, this prevailed, and the lot fell on me,
Unlucky man! to be the ministrant
Of this fair service. So I am present here,
Against my will and yours, I am sure of that.
None love the bringer of unwelcome news.

CH. My lord, a thought keeps whispering in my breast,
Some Power divine hath interposed in this.

CR. Cease, ere thou quite enrage me, and appear
Foolish as thou art old. Talk not to me
Of Gods who have taken thought for this dead man!
Say, was it for his benefits to them
They hid his corse, and honoured him so highly,
Who came to set on fire their pillared shrines,
With all the riches of their offerings,
And to make nothing of their land and laws?
Or, hast thou seen them honouring villany?
That cannot be. Long time the cause of this
Hath come to me in secret murmurings
From malcontents of Thebes, who under yoke
Turned restive, and would not accept my sway.
Well know I, these have bribed the watchmen here
To do this for some fee. For nought hath grown
Current among mankind so mischievous
As money. This brings cities to their fall:
This drives men homeless, and moves honest minds
To base contrivings. This hath taught mankind
The use of wickedness, and how to give
An impious turn to every kind of act.
But whosoe'er hath done this for reward
Hath found his way at length to punishment.
If Zeus have still my worship, be assured
Of that which here on oath I say to thee--
Unless ye find the man who made this grave
And bring him bodily before mine eye,
Death shall not be enough, till ye have hung
Alive for an example of your guilt,
That henceforth in your rapine ye may know
Whence gain is to be gotten, and may learn
Pelf from all quarters is not to be loved.
For in base getting, 'tis a common proof,
More find disaster than deliverance.

WATCH. Am I to speak? or must I turn and go?

CR. What? know you not your speech offends even now?

WATCH. Doth the mind smart withal, or only the ear?

CR. Art thou to probe the seat of mine annoy?

WATCH. If I offend, 'tis in your ear alone,
The malefactor wounds ye to the soul.

CR. Out on thee! thou art nothing but a tongue.

WATCH. Then was I ne'er the doer of this deed.

CR. Yea, verily: self-hired to crime for gold.

WATCH. Pity so clear a mind should clearly err!

CR. Gloze now on clearness! But unless ye bring
The burier, without glozing ye shall tell,
Craven advantage clearly worketh bane.

WATCH. By all means let the man be found; one thing
I know right well:--caught or not caught, howe'er
Fate rules his fortune, me you ne'er will see
Standing in presence here. Even now I owe
Deep thanks to Heaven for mine escape, so far
Beyond my hope and highest expectancy.             [_Exeunt severally_

CHORUS.
Many a wonder lives and moves, but the wonder of all is man,       I 1
That courseth over the grey ocean, carried of Southern gale,
Faring amidst high-swelling seas that rudely surge around,
And Earth, supreme of mighty Gods, eldest, imperishable,
Eternal, he with patient furrow wears and wears away
      As year by year the plough-shares turn and turn,--
Subduing her unwearied strength with children of the steed[4].

And wound in woven coils of nets he seizeth for his prey           I 2
The aery tribe of birds and wilding armies of the chase,
And sea-born millions of the deep--man is so crafty-wise.
And now with engine of his wit he tameth to his will
The mountain-ranging beast whose lair is in the country wild;
      And now his yoke hath passed upon the mane
Of horse with proudly crested neck and tireless mountain bull.

Wise utterance and wind-swift thought, and city-moulding mind,    II 1
And shelter from the clear-eyed power of biting frost,
He hath taught him, and to shun the sharp, roof-penetrating rain,--
Full of resource, without device he meets no coming time;
      From Death alone he shall not find reprieve;
No league may gain him that relief; but even for fell disease,
That long hath baffled wisest leech, he hath contrived a cure.

Inventive beyond wildest hope, endowed with boundless skill,      II 2
One while he moves toward evil, and one while toward good,
According as he loves his land and fears the Gods above.
Weaving the laws into his life and steadfast oath of Heaven,
      High in the State he moves but outcast he,
Who hugs dishonour to his heart and follows paths of crime
Ne'er may he come beneath my roof, nor think like thoughts with me.

LEADER OF CHORUS
    What portent from the Gods is here?
    My mind is mazed with doubt and fear.
    How can I gainsay what I see?
    I know the girl Antigone,
    O hapless child of hapless sire!
    Didst thou, then, recklessly aspire
    To brave kings' laws, and now art brought
    In madness of transgression caught?

_Enter_ Watchman, _bringing in_ ANTIGONE

WATCH. Here is the doer of the deed--this maid
We found her burying him. Where is the King?

CH. Look, he comes forth again to meet thy call.

_Enter_ CREON.

CR. What call so nearly times with mine approach?

WATCH. My lord, no mortal should deny on oath,
Judgement is still belied by after thought
When quailing 'neath the tempest of your threats,
Methought no force would drive me to this place
But joy unlook'd for and surpassing hope
Is out of bound the best of all delight,
And so I am here again,--though I had sworn
I ne'er would come,--and in my charge this maid,
Caught in the act of caring for the dead
Here was no lot throwing, this hap was mine
Without dispute. And now, my sovereign lord,
According to thy pleasure, thine own self
Examine and convict her. For my part
I have good right to be away and free
From the bad business I am come upon.

CR. This maiden!
How came she in thy charge? Where didst thou find her?

WATCH. Burying the prince. One word hath told thee all.

CR. Hast thou thy wits, and knowest thou what thou sayest?

WATCH. I saw her burying him whom you forbade
To bury. Is that, now, clearly spoken, or no?

CR. And how was she detected, caught, and taken?

WATCH. It fell in this wise. We were come to the spot,
Bearing the dreadful burden of thy threats;
And first with care we swept the dust away
From round the corse, and laid the dank limbs bare:
Then sate below the hill-top, out o' the wind,
Where no bad odour from the dead might strike us,
Stirring each other on with interchange
Of loud revilings on the negligent
In 'tendance on this duty. So we stayed
Till in mid heaven the sun's resplendent orb
Stood high, and the heat strengthened. Suddenly,
The Storm-god raised a whirlwind from the ground,
Vexing heaven's concave, and filled all the plain,
Rending the locks of all the orchard groves,
Till the great sky was choked withal. We closed
Our lips and eyes, and bore the God-sent evil.
When after a long while this ceased, the maid
Was seen, and wailed in high and bitter key,
Like some despairing bird that hath espied
Her nest all desolate, the nestlings gone.
So, when she saw the body bare, she mourned
Loudly, and cursed the authors of this deed.
Then nimbly with her hands she brought dry dust,
And holding high a shapely brazen cruse,
Poured three libations, honouring the dead.
We, when we saw, ran in, and straightway seized
Our quarry, nought dismayed, and charged her with
The former crime and this. And she denied
Nothing;--to my delight, and to my grief.
One's self to escape disaster is great joy;
Yet to have drawn a friend into distress
Is painful. But mine own security
To me is of more value than aught else.

CR. Thou, with thine eyes down-fastened to the earth!
Dost thou confess to have done this, or deny it?

ANT. I deny nothing. I avow the deed.

CR. (_to_ Watchman).
Thou may'st betake thyself whither thou wilt,
Acquitted of the grievous charge, and free.
(_to_ ANTIGONE)
And thou,--no prating talk, but briefly tell,
Knew'st thou our edict that forbade this thing?

ANT. I could not fail to know. You made it plain.

CR. How durst thou then transgress the published law?

ANT. I heard it not from Heaven, nor came it forth
From Justice, where she reigns with Gods below.
They too have published to mankind a law.
Nor thought I thy commandment of such might
That one who is mortal thus could overbear
The infallible, unwritten laws of Heaven.
Not now or yesterday they have their being,
But everlastingly, and none can tell
The hour that saw their birth. I would not, I,
For any terror of a man's resolve,
Incur the God-inflicted penalty
Of doing them wrong. That death would come, I knew
Without thine edict;--if before the time,
I count it gain. Who does not gain by death,
That lives, as I do, amid boundless woe?
Slight is the sorrow of such doom to me.
But had I suffered my own mother's child,
Fallen in blood, to be without a grave,
That were indeed a sorrow. This is none.
And if thou deem'st me foolish for my deed,
I am foolish in the judgement of a fool.

CH. Fierce shows the maiden's vein from her fierce sire;
Calamity doth not subdue her will.

CR. Ay, but the stubborn spirit first doth fall.
Oft ye shall see the strongest bar of steel,
That fire hath hardened to extremity,
Shattered to pieces. A small bit controls
The fiery steed. Pride may not be endured
In one whose life is subject to command.
This maiden hath been conversant with crime
Since first she trampled on the public law;
And now she adds to crime this insolence,
To laugh at her offence, and glory in it.
Truly, if she that hath usurped this power
Shall rest unpunished, she then is a man,
And I am none. Be she my sister's child,
Or of yet nearer blood to me than all
That take protection from my hearth, the pair
Shall not escape the worst of deaths. For know,
I count the younger of the twain no less
Copartner in this plotted funeral:
And now I bid you call her. Late I saw her
Within the house, beyond herself, and frantic.
--Full oft when one is darkly scheming wrong,
The disturbed spirit hath betrayed itself
Before the act it hides.--But not less hateful
Seems it to me, when one that hath been caught
In wickedness would give it a brave show.

ANT. Wouldst thou aught more of me than merely death?

CR. No more. 'Tis all I claim. Death closes all.

ANT. Why then delay? No talk of thine can charm me,
Forbid it Heaven! And my discourse no less
Must evermore sound noisome to thine ear.
Yet where could I have found a fairer fame
Than giving burial to my own true brother?
All here would tell thee they approve my deed,
Were they not tongue-tied to authority.
But kingship hath much profit; this in chief,
That it may do and say whate'er it will.

CR. No Theban sees the matter with thine eye.

ANT. They see, but curb their voices to thy sway

CR. And art thou not ashamed, acting alone?

ANT. A sister's piety hath no touch of shame.

CR. Was not Eteocles thy brother too?

ANT. My own true brother from both parents' blood.

CR. This duty was impiety to him.

ANT. He that is dead will not confirm that word.

CR. If you impart his honours to the vile.

ANT. It was his brother, not a slave, who fell.

CR. But laying waste the land for which he fought.

ANT. Death knows no difference, but demands his due.

CR. Yet not equality 'twixt good and bad.

ANT. Both may be equal yonder; who can tell?

CR. An enemy is hated even in death.

ANT. Love, and not hatred, is the part for me.

CR. Down then to death! and, if you must, there love
The dead. No woman rules me while I live.

CH. Now comes Ismene forth. Ah, see,
From clouds above her brow
The sister-loving tear
Is falling wet on her fair cheek,
Distaining all her passion-crimson'd face!

_Enter_ ISMENE.

CR. And thou, that like a serpent coiled i' the house
Hast secretly been draining my life-blood,--
Little aware that I was cherishing
Two curses and subverters of my throne,--
Tell us, wilt thou avouch thy share in this
Entombment, or forswear all knowledge of it?

ISM. If her voice go therewith, I did the deed,
And bear my part and burden of the blame.

ANT. Nay, justice will not suffer that. You would not,
And I refused to make you mine ally.

ISM. But now in thy misfortune I would fain
Embark with thee in thy calamity.

ANT. Who did the deed, the powers beneath can tell.
I care not for lip-kindness from my kin.

ISM. Ah! scorn me not so far as to forbid me
To die with thee, and honour our lost brother.

ANT. Die not with me, nor make your own a deed
you never touched! My dying is enough.

ISM. What joy have I in life when thou art gone?

ANT. Ask Creon there. He hath your care and duty.

ISM. What can it profit thee to vex me so?

ANT. My heart is pained, though my lip laughs at thee.

ISM. What can I do for thee now, even now?

ANT. Save your own life. I grudge not your escape.

ISM. Alas! and must I be debarred thy fate?

ANT. Life was the choice you made. Mine was to die.

ISM. I warned thee----

ANT.                   Yes, your prudence is admired
On earth. My wisdom is approved below.

ISM. Yet truly we are both alike in fault.

ANT. Fear not; you live. My life hath long been given
To death, to be of service to the dead.

CR. Of these two girls, the one hath lost her wits:
The other hath had none since she was born.

ISM. My lord, in misery, the mind one hath
Is wont to be dislodged, and will not stay.

CR. You have ta'en leave of yours at any rate,
When you cast in your portion with the vile.

ISM. What can life profit me without my sister?

CR. Say not 'my sister'; she is nothing now.

ISM. What? wilt thou kill thy son's espousal too?

CR. He may find other fields to plough upon.

ISM. Not so as love was plighted 'twixt them twain.

CR. I hate a wicked consort for my son.

ANT. O dearest Haemon! how thy father wrongs thee!

CR. Thou and thy marriage are a torment to me.

CH. And wilt thou sever her from thine own son?

CR. 'Tis death must come between him and his joy,

CH. All doubt is then resolved: the maid must die,

CR. I am resolved; and so, 'twould seem, are you.
In with her, slaves! No more delay! Henceforth
These maids must have but woman's liberty
And be mewed up; for even the bold will fly
When they see Death nearing the house of life.
                     [ANTIGONE _and_ ISMENE _are led into the palace._

CHORUS.
Blest is the life that never tasted woe.                           I 1
      When once the blow
Hath fallen upon a house with Heaven-sent doom,
Trouble descends in ever-widening gloom
Through all the number of the tribe to flow;
      As when the briny surge
      That Thrace-born tempests urge
(The big wave ever gathering more and more)
Runs o'er the darkness of the deep,
      And with far-searching sweep
Uprolls the storm-heap'd tangle on the shore,
While cliff to beaten cliff resounds with sullen roar.

The stock of Cadmus from old time, I know,                         I 2
      Hath woe on woe,
Age following age, the living on the dead,
Fresh sorrow falling on each new-ris'n head,
None freed by God from ruthless overthrow.
      E'en now a smiling light
      Was spreading to our sight
O'er one last fibre of a blasted tree,--
When, lo! the dust of cruel death,
      Tribute of Gods beneath,
And wildering thoughts, and fate-born ecstasy,
Quench the brief gleam in dark Nonentity.

What froward will of man, O Zeus! can check thy might?            II 1
Not all-enfeebling sleep, nor tireless months divine,
Can touch thee, who through ageless time
Rulest mightily Olympus' dazzling height.
This was in the beginning, and shall be
      Now and eternally,
Not here or there, but everywhere,
A law of misery that shall not spare.

For Hope, that wandereth wide, comforting many a head,            II 2
Entangleth many more with glamour of desire:
Unknowing they have trode the fire.
Wise was the famous word of one who said,
'Evil oft seemeth goodness to the mind
      An angry God doth blind.'
Few are the days that such as he
May live untroubled of calamity.

LEADER OF CHORUS.
Lo, Haemon, thy last offspring, now is come,
Lamenting haply for the maiden's doom,
Say, is he mourning o'er her young life lost,
Fiercely indignant for his bridal crossed?

_Enter_ HAEMON.

CR. We shall know soon, better than seers could teach us.
Can it be so, my son, that thou art brought
By mad distemperature against thy sire,
On hearing of the irrevocable doom
Passed on thy promised bride? Or is thy love
Thy father's, be his actions what they may?

HAEMON. I am thine, father, and will follow still
Thy good directions; nor would I prefer
The fairest bride to thy wise government.

CR. That, O my son! should be thy constant mind,
In all to bend thee to thy father's will.
Therefore men pray to have around their hearths
Obedient offspring, to requite their foes
With harm, and honour whom their father loves;
But he whose issue proves unprofitable,
Begets what else but sorrow to himself
And store of laughter to his enemies?
Make not, my son, a shipwreck of thy wit
For a woman. Thine own heart may teach thee this;--
There's but cold comfort in a wicked wife
Yoked to the home inseparably. What wound
Can be more deadly than a harmful friend?
Then spurn her like an enemy, and send her
To wed some shadow in the world below!
For since of all the city I have found
Her only recusant, caught in the act,
I will not break my word before the State.
I will take her life. At this let her invoke
The god of kindred blood! For if at home
I foster rebels, how much more abroad?
Whoso is just in ruling his own house,
Lives rightly in the commonwealth no less:
But he that wantonly defies the law,
Or thinks to dictate to authority,
Shall have no praise from me. What power soe'er
The city hath ordained, must be obeyed
In little things and great things, right or wrong.
The man who so obeys, I have good hope
Will govern and be governed as he ought,
And in the storm of battle at my side
Will stand a faithful and a trusty comrade.
But what more fatal than the lapse of rule?
This ruins cities, this lays houses waste,
This joins with the assault of war to break
Full numbered armies into hopeless rout;
And in the unbroken host 'tis nought but rule
That keeps those many bodies from defeat,
I must be zealous to defend the law,
And not go down before a woman's will.
Else, if I fall, 'twere best a man should strike me;
Lest one should say, 'a woman worsted him.'

CH. Unless our sense is weakened by long time,
Thou speakest not unwisely.

HAEM.                       O my sire,
Sound wisdom is a God implanted seed,
Of all possessions highest in regard.
I cannot, and I would not learn to say
That thou art wrong in this; though in another,
It may be such a word were not unmeet.
But as thy son, 'tis surely mine to scan
Men's deeds, and words, and muttered thoughts toward thee.
Fear of thy frown restrains the citizen
In talk that would fall harshly on thine ear.
I under shadow may o'erhear, how all
Thy people mourn this maiden, and complain
That of all women least deservedly
She perishes for a most glorious deed.
'Who, when her own true brother on the earth
Lay weltering after combat in his gore,
Left him not graveless, for the carrion few
And raw devouring field dogs to consume--
Hath she not merited a golden praise?'
Such the dark rumour spreading silently.
Now, in my valuing, with thy prosperous life,
My father, no possession can compare.
Where can be found a richer ornament
For children, than their father's high renown?
Or where for fathers, than their children's fame?
Nurse not one changeless humour in thy breast,
That nothing can be right but as thou sayest.
Whoe'er presumes that he alone hath sense,
Or peerless eloquence, or reach of soul,
Unwrap him, and you'll find but emptiness.
'Tis no disgrace even to the wise to learn
And lend an ear to reason. You may see
The plant that yields where torrent waters flow
Saves every little twig, when the stout tree
Is torn away and dies. The mariner
Who will not ever slack the sheet that sways
The vessel, but still tightens, oversets,
And so, keel upward, ends his voyaging.
Relent, I pray thee, and give place to change.
If any judgement hath informed my youth,
I grant it noblest to be always wise,
But,--for omniscience is denied to man--
Tis good to hearken to admonishment.

CH. My lord, 'twere wise, if thou wouldst learn of him
In reason; and thou, Haemon, from thy sire!
Truth lies between you.

CR.                     Shall our age, forsooth,
Be taught discretion by a peevish boy?

HAEM. Only in what is right. Respects of time
Must be outbalanced by the actual need.

CR. To cringe to rebels cannot be a need.

HAEM. I do not claim observance for the vile.

CR. Why, is not she so tainted? Is 't not proved?

HAEM. All Thebes denies it.

CR.                         Am I ruled by Thebes?

HAEM. If youth be folly, that is youngly said.

CR. Shall other men prescribe my government?

HAEM. One only makes not up a city, father.

CR. Is not the city in the sovereign's hand?

HAEM. Nobly you'd govern as the desert's king.

CR. This youngster is the woman's champion.

HAEM. You are the woman, then--for you I care.

CR. Villain, to bandy reasons with your sire!

HAEM. I plead against the unreason of your fault.

CR. What fault is there in reverencing my power?

HAEM. There is no reverence when you spurn the Gods.

CR. Abominable spirit, woman-led!

HAEM. You will not find me following a base guide.

CR. Why, all your speech this day is spent for her.

HAEM. For you and me too, and the Gods below.

CR. She will not live to be your wife on earth.

HAEM. I know, then, whom she will ruin by her death.

CR. What, wilt thou threaten, too, thou audacious boy?

HAEM. It is no threat to answer empty words.

CR. Witless admonisher, thou shalt pay for this!

HAEM. Thou art my sire, else would I call thee senseless.

CR. Thou woman's minion! mince not terms with me,

HAEM. Wouldst thou have all the speaking on thy side?

CR. Is 't possible? By yon heaven! thou'lt not escape,
For adding contumely to words of blame.
Bring out the hated thing, that she may die
Immediately, before her lover's face!

HAEM. Nay, dream not she shall suffer in my sight
Nor shalt thou ever see my face again
Let those stay with you that can brook your rage!              [_Exit_

CH. My lord, he is parted swiftly in deep wrath!
The youthful spirit offended makes wild work.

CR. Ay, let him do his worst. Let him give scope
To pride beyond the compass of a man!
He shall not free these maidens from their doom.

CH. Is death thy destination for them both?

CR. Only for her who acted. Thou art right.

CH. And what hast thou determined for her death?

CH. Where human footstep shuns the desert ground,
I'll hide her living in a cave like vault,
With so much provender as may prevent
Pollution from o'ertaking the whole city
And there, perchance, she may obtain of Death,
Her only deity, to spare her soul,
Or else in that last moment she will learn
'Tis labour lost to worship powers unseen.               [_Exit_ CREON

CHORUS
Love, never foiled in fight!                                         1
Warrior Love, that on Wealth workest havoc!
Love, who in ambush of young maid's soft cheek
All night keep'st watch!--Thou roamest over seas.
In lonely forest homes thou harbourest.
Who may avoid thee? None!
Mortal, Immortal,
All are o'erthrown by thee, all feel thy frenzy.

Lightly thou draw'st awry                                            2
Righteous minds into wrong to their ruin
Thou this unkindly quarrel hast inflamed
'Tween kindred men--Triumphantly prevails
The heart-compelling eye of winsome bride,
Compeer of mighty Law
Throned, commanding.
Madly thou mockest men, dread Aphrodite.

LEADER OF CHORUS.
Ah! now myself am carried past the bound
Of law, nor can I check the rising tear,
When I behold Antigone even here
Touching the quiet bourne where all must rest.

_Enter_ ANTIGONE _guarded._

ANT. Ye see me on my way,                                          I 1
O burghers of my father's land!
With one last look on Helios' ray,
Led my last path toward the silent strand.
Alive to the wide house of rest I go;
      No dawn for me may shine,
No marriage-blessing e'er be mine,
No hymeneal with my praises flow!
The Lord of Acheron's unlovely shore
Shall be mine only husband evermore.

CH. Yea, but with glory and fame,--
    Not by award of the sword,
    Not with blighting disease,
    But by a law of thine own,--
    Thou, of mortals alone,
    Goest alive to the deep
    Tranquil home of the dead.

ANT. Erewhile I heard men say,                                     I 2
How, in far Phrygia, Thebe's friend,
Tantalus' child, had dreariest end
On heights of Sipylus consumed away:
O'er whom the rock like clinging ivy grows,
      And while with moistening dew
Her cheek runs down, the eternal snows
Weigh o'er her, and the tearful stream renew
That from sad brows her stone-cold breast doth steep.
Like unto her the God lulls me to sleep.

CH. But she was a goddess born,
    We but of mortal line;
    And sure to rival the fate
    Of a daughter of sires Divine
    Were no light glory in death.

ANT. O mockery of my woe!                                         II 1
I pray you by our fathers' holy Fear,
    Why must I hear
Your insults, while in life on earth I stand,
    O ye that flow
In wealth, rich burghers of my bounteous land?
O fount of Dirce, and thou spacious grove,
Where Thebe's chariots move!
Ye are my witness, though none else be nigh,
By what enormity of lawless doom,
    Without one friendly sigh,
I go to the strong mound of yon strange tomb,--
All hapless, having neither part nor room
With those who live or those who die!

CH. Thy boldness mounted high,
And thou, my child, 'gainst the great pedestal
Of Justice with unmeasured force didst fall.
Thy father's lot still presseth hard on thee.

ANT. That pains me more than all.                                 II 2
Ah! thou hast touched my father's misery
    Still mourned anew,
With all the world-famed sorrows on us rolled
    Since Cadmus old.
O cursed marriage that my mother knew!
O wretched fortune of my sire, who lay
    Where first he saw the day!
Such were the authors of my burdened life;
To whom, with curses dowered, never a wife,
    I go to dwell beneath.
O brother mine, thy princely marriage-tie
Hath been thy downfall, and in this thy death
Thou hast destroyed me ere I die.

CH. 'Twas pious, we confess,
Thy fervent deed. But he, who power would show,
Must let no soul of all he rules transgress.
A self-willed passion was thine overthrow.

ANT. Friendless, uncomforted of bridal lay,                        III
Unmourned, they lead me on my destined way.
Woe for my life forlorn! I may not see
The sacred round of yon great light
Rising again to greet me from the night;
No friend bemoans my fate, no tear hath fallen for me!

_Enter_ CREON.

CR. If criminals were suffered to complain
In dirges before death, they ne'er would end.
Away with her at once, and closing her,
As I commanded, in the vaulty tomb,
Leave her all desolate, whether to die,
Or to live on in that sepulchral cell.
We are guiltless in the matter of this maid;
Only she shall not share the light of day.

ANT. O grave! my bridal chamber, prison-house
Eterne, deep-hollowed, whither I am led
To find mine own,--of whom Persephone
Hath now a mighty number housed in death:--
I last of all, and far most miserably,
Am going, ere my days have reached their term!
Yet lives the hope that, when I go, most surely
Dear will my coming be, father, to thee,
And dear to thee, my mother, and to thee,
Brother! since with these very hands I decked
And bathed you after death, and ministered
The last libations. And I reap this doom
For tending, Polynices, on thy corse.
Indeed I honoured thee, the wise will say.
For neither, had I children, nor if one
I had married were laid bleeding on the earth,
Would I have braved the city's will, or taken
This burden on me. Wherefore? I will tell.
A husband lost might be replaced; a son,
If son were lost to me, might yet be born;
But, with both parents hidden in the tomb,
No brother may arise to comfort me.
Therefore above all else I honoured thee,
And therefore Creon thought me criminal,
And bold in wickedness, O brother mine!
And now by servile hands, for all to see,
He hastens me away, unhusbanded,
Before my nuptial, having never known
Or married joy or tender motherhood.
But desolate and friendless I go down
Alive, O horror! to the vaults of the dead.
For what transgression of Heaven's ordinance?
Alas! how can I look to Heaven? on whom
Call to befriend me? seeing that I have earned,
By piety, the meed of impious?--
Oh! if this act be what the Gods approve,
In death I may repent me of my deed;
But if they sin who judge me, be their doom
No heavier than they wrongly wreak on me!

CH. With unchanged fury beats the storm of soul
That shakes this maiden.

CR.                      Then for that, be sure
Her warders shall lament their tardiness.

ANT. Alas! I hear Death's footfall in that sound.

CR. I may not reassure thee.--'Tis most true.

ANT. O land of Thebe, city of my sires,
Ye too, ancestral Gods! I go--I go!
Even now they lead me to mine end. Behold!
Founders of Thebes, the only scion left
Of Cadmus' issue, how unworthily,
By what mean instruments I am oppressed,
For reverencing the dues of piety.                     [_Exit guarded_

CHORUS.
Even Danae's beauty left the lightsome day.                        I 1
Closed in her strong and brass-bound tower she lay
      In tomb-like deep confine.
Yet she was gendered, O my child!
      From sires of noblest line,
And treasured for the Highest the golden rain.
Fated misfortune hath a power so fell:
      Not wealth, nor warfare wild,
Nor dark spray-dashing coursers of the main
Against great Destiny may once rebel.

He too in darksome durance was compressed,                         I 2
King of Edonians, Dryas' hasty son[5],
      In eyeless vault of stone
Immured by Dionysus' hest,
      All for a wrathful jest.
Fierce madness issueth in such fatal flower.
He found 'twas mad to taunt the Heavenly Power,
      Chilling the Maenad breast
Kindled with Bacchic fire, and with annoy
Angering the Muse that in the flute hath joy.

And near twin rocks that guard the Colchian sea,                  II 1
Bosporian cliffs 'fore Salmydessus rise,
Where neighbouring Ares from his shrine beheld
Phineus' two sons[6] by female fury quelled.
With cursed wounding of their sight-reft eyes,
That cried to Heaven to 'venge the iniquity.
The shuttle's sharpness in a cruel hand
Dealt the dire blow, not struck with martial brand.

But chiefly for her piteous lot they pined,                       II 2
Who was the source of their rejected birth.
She touched the lineage of Erechtheus old;
Whence in far caves her life did erst unfold,
Cradled 'mid storms, daughter of Northern wind,
Steed-swift o'er all steep places of the earth.
Yet even on her, though reared of heavenly kind,
The long-enduring Fates at last took hold.

_Enter_ TIRESIAS, _led by a boy._

TIRESIAS. We are come, my lords of Thebes, joint wayfarers,
One having eyes for both. The blind must still
Thus move in frail dependence on a guide.

CR. And what hath brought thee, old Tiresias, now?

TI. I will instruct thee, if thou wilt hear my voice.

CR. I have not heretofore rejected thee.

TI. Therefore thy pilotage hath saved this city.

CR. Grateful experience owns the benefit.

TI. Take heed. Again thou art on an edge of peril.

CR. What is it? How I shudder at thy word!

TI. The tokens of mine art shall make thee know.
As I was sitting on that ancient seat
Of divination, where I might command
Sure cognisance of every bird of the air,
I heard strange clamouring of fowl, that screeched
In furious dissonance; and, I could tell,
Talons were bloodily engaged--the whirr
Of wings told a clear tale. At once, in fear,
I tried burnt sacrifice at the high altar:
Where from the offering the fire god refused
To gleam; but a dank humour from the bones
Dripped on the embers with a sputtering fume.
The gall was spirited high in air, the thighs
Lay wasting, bared of their enclosing fat.
Such failing tokens of blurred augury
This youth reported, who is guide to me,
As I to others. And this evil state
Is come upon the city from thy will:
Because our altars--yea, our sacred hearths--
Are everywhere infected from the mouths
Of dogs or beak of vulture that hath fed
On Oedipus' unhappy slaughtered son.
And then at sacrifice the Gods refuse
Our prayers and savour of the thigh-bone fat--
And of ill presage is the thickening cry
Of bird that battens upon human gore
Now, then, my son, take thought. A man may err;
But he is not insensate or foredoomed
To ruin, who, when he hath lapsed to evil,
Stands not inflexible, but heals the harm.
The obstinate man still earns the name of fool.
Urge not contention with the dead, nor stab
The fallen. What valour is 't to slay the slain?
I have thought well of this, and say it with care;
And careful counsel, that brings gain withal,
Is precious to the understanding soul.

CR. I am your mark, and ye with one consent
All shoot your shafts at me. Nought left untried,
Not even the craft of prophets, by whose crew
I am bought and merchandised long since. Go on!
Traffic, get gain, electrum from the mine
Of Lydia, and the gold of Ind! Yet know,
Grey-beard! ye ne'er shall hide him in a tomb.
No, not if heaven's own eagle chose to snatch
And bear him to the throne supreme for food,
Even that pollution should not daunt my heart
To yield permission for his funeral.
For well know I defilement ne'er can rise
From man to God. But, old Tiresias, hear!
Even wisest spirits have a shameful fall
That fairly speak base words for love of gain.

TI. Ah! where is wisdom? who considereth?

CR. Wherefore? what means this universal doubt?

TI. How far the best of riches is good counsel!

CR. As far as folly is the mightiest bane.

TI. Yet thou art sick of that same pestilence.

CR. I would not give the prophet blow for blow.

TI. What blow is harder than to call me false?

CR. Desire of money is the prophet's plague.

TI. And ill-sought lucre is the curse of kings.

CR. Know'st thou 'tis of thy sovereign thou speak'st this?

TI. Yea, for my aid gives thee to sway this city.

CR. Far seeing art thou, but dishonest too.

TI. Thou wilt provoke the utterance of my tongue
To that even thought refused to dwell upon.

CR. Say on, so thou speak sooth, and not for gain.

TI. You think me likely to seek gain from you?

CR. You shall not make your merchandise on me!

TI. Not many courses of the racing sun
Shalt thou fulfil, ere of thine own true blood
Thou shalt have given a corpse in recompense
For one on earth whom thou hast cast beneath,
Entombing shamefully a living soul,
And one whom thou hast kept above the ground
And disappointed of all obsequies,
Unsanctified and godlessly forlorn.
Such violence the powers beneath will bear
Not even from the Olympian gods. For thee
The avengers wait. Hidden but near at hand,
Lagging but sure, the Furies of the grave
Are watching for thee to thy ruinous harm,
With thine own evil to entangle thee.
Look well to it now whether I speak for gold!
A little while, and thine own palace-halls
Shall flash the truth upon thee with loud noise
Of men and women, shrieking o'er the dead.
And all the cities whose unburied sons,
Mangled and torn, have found a sepulchre
In dogs or jackals or some ravenous bird
That stains their incense with polluted breath,
Are forming leagues in troublous enmity.
Such shafts, since thou hast stung me to the quick,
I like an archer at thee in my wrath
Have loosed unerringly--carrying their pang,
Inevitable, to thy very heart.
Now, sirrah! lead me home, that his hot mood
Be spent on younger objects, till he learn
To keep a safer mind and calmer tongue.                        [_Exit_

CH. Sire, there is terror in that prophecy.
He who is gone, since ever these my locks,
Once black, now white with age, waved o'er my brow,
Hath never spoken falsely to the state.

CR. I know it, and it shakes me to the core.
To yield is dreadful: but resistingly
To face the blow of fate, is full of dread.

CH. The time calls loud on wisdom, good my lord.

CR. What must I do? Advise me. I will obey.

CH. Go and release the maiden from the vault,
And make a grave for the unburied dead.

CR. Is that your counsel? Think you I will yield?

CH. With all the speed thou mayest: swift harms from heaven
With instant doom o'erwhelm the froward man.

CR. Oh! it is hard. But I am forced to this
Against myself. I cannot fight with Destiny.

CH. Go now to do it. Trust no second hand.

CR. Even as I am, I go. Come, come, my people.
Here or not here, with mattocks in your hands
Set forth immediately to yonder hill!
And, since I have ta'en this sudden turn, myself,
Who tied the knot, will hasten to unloose it.
For now the fear comes over me, 'tis best
To pass one's life in the accustomed round.                  [_Exeunt_

CHORUS.
O God of many a name!                                              I 1
Filling the heart of that Cadmeian bride
      With deep delicious pride,
Offspring of him who wields the withering flame!
      Thou for Italia's good
Dost care, and 'midst the all-gathering bosom wide[7]
      Of Deo dost preside;
Thou, Bacchus, by Ismenus' winding waters
      'Mongst Thebe's frenzied daughters,
Keep'st haunt, commanding the fierce dragon's brood.

Thee o'er the forked hill                                          I 2
The pinewood flame beholds, where Bacchai rove,
      Nymphs of Corycian grove,
Hard by the flowing of Castalia's rill.
      To visit Theban ways,
By bloomy wine-cliffs flushing tender bright
      'Neath far Nyseian height
Thou movest o'er the ivy-mantled mound,
      While myriad voices sound
Loud strains of 'Evoe!' to thy deathless praise.

For Thebe thou dost still uphold,                                 II 1
First of cities manifold,
Thou and the nymph whom lightning made
Mother of thy radiant head.
Come then with healing for the violent woe
That o'er our peopled land doth largely flow,
Passing the high Parnassian steep
Or moaning narrows of the deep!

Come, leader of the starry quire                                  II 2
Quick-panting with their breath of fire!
Lord of high voices of the night,
Child born to him who dwells in light,
Appear with those who, joying in their madness,
Honour the sole dispenser of their gladness,
Thyiads of the Aegean main
Night-long trooping in thy train.

_Enter_ Messenger.

MESS. Neighbours of Cadmus and Amphion's halls,
No life of mortal, howsoe'er it stand,
Shall once have praise or censure from my mouth;
Since human happiness and human woe
Come even as fickle Fortune smiles or lours;
And none can augur aught from what we see.
Creon erewhile to me was enviable,
Who saved our Thebe from her enemies;
Then, vested with supreme authority,
Ruled her aright; and flourish'd in his home
With noblest progeny. What hath he now?
Nothing. For when a man is lost to joy,
I count him not to live, but reckon him
A living corse. Riches belike are his,
Great riches and the appearance of a King;
But if no gladness come to him, all else
Is shadow of a vapour, weighed with joy.

CH. What new affliction heaped on sovereignty
Com'st thou to tell?

MESS.                They are dead; and they that live
Are guilty of the death.

CH.                      The slayer, who?
And who the slain? Declare.

MESS.                       Haemon is dead,
And by a desperate hand.

CH.                      His own, or Creon's?

MESS. By his own hand, impelled with violent wrath
At Creon for the murder of the maid.

CH. Ah, Seer! how surely didst thou aim thy word!

MESS. So stands the matter. Make of it what ye list.

CH. See, from the palace cometh close to us
Creon's unhappy wife, Eurydice.
Is it by chance, or heard she of her son?

_Enter_ EURYDICE.

EURYDICE. Ye men of Thebes, the tidings met mine ear
As I was coming forth to visit Pallas
With prayerful salutation. I was loosening
The bar of the closed gate, when the sharp sound
Of mine own sorrow smote against my heart,
And I fell back astonied on my maids
And fainted. But the tale? tell me once more;
I am no novice in adversity.

MESS. Dear lady, I will tell thee what I saw,
And hide no grain of truth: why should I soothe
Thy spirit with soft tales, when the harsh fact
Must prove me a liar? Truth is always best.
I duly led the footsteps of thy lord
To the highest point of the plain, where still was lying,
Forlorn and mangled by the dogs, the corse
Of Polynices. We besought Persephone
And Pluto gently to restrain their wrath,
And wash'd him pure and clean, and then we burned
The poor remains with brushwood freshly pulled,
And heaped a lofty mound of his own earth
Above him. Then we turned us to the vault,
The maiden's stony bride-chamber of death.
And from afar, round the unhallowed cell,
One heard a voice of wailing loud and long,
And went and told his lord: who coming near
Was haunted by the dim and bitter cry,
And suddenly exclaiming on his fate
Said lamentably, 'My prophetic heart
Divined aright. I am going, of all ways
That e'er I went, the unhappiest to-day.
My son's voice smites me. Go, my men, approach
With speed, and, where the stones are torn away,
Press through the passage to that door of death,
Look hard, and tell me, if I hear aright
The voice of Haemon, or the gods deceive me.'
Thus urged by our despairing lord, we made
Th' espial. And in the farthest nook of the vault
We saw the maiden hanging by the neck
With noose of finest tissue firmly tied,
And clinging to her on his knees the boy,
Lamenting o'er his ruined nuptial-rite,
Consummated in death, his father's crime
And his lost love. And when the father saw him,
With loud and dreadful clamour bursting in
He went to him and called him piteously:
'What deed is this, unhappy youth? What thought
O'ermaster'd thee? Where did the force of woe
O'erturn thy reason? O come forth, my son,
I beg thee!' But with savage eyes the youth
Glared scowling at him, and without a word
Plucked forth his two-edged blade. The father then
Fled and escaped: but the unhappy boy,
Wroth with himself, even where he stood, leant heavily
Upon his sword and plunged it in his side.--
And while the sense remained, his slackening arm
Enfolded still the maiden, and his breath,
Gaspingly drawn and panted forth with pain,
Cast ruddy drops upon her pallid face;
Then lay in death upon the dead, at last
Joined to his bride in Hades' dismal hall:--
A monument unto mankind, that rashness
Is the worst evil of this mortal state.               [_Exit_ EURYDICE

CH. What augur ye from this? The queen is gone
Without word spoken either good or bad.

MESS. I, too, am struck with dread. But hope consoles me,
That having heard the affliction of her son,
Her pride forbids to publish her lament
Before the town, but to her maids within
She will prescribe to mourn the loss of the house.
She is too tried in judgement to do ill.

CH. I cannot tell. The extreme of silence, too,
Is dangerous, no less than much vain noise.

MESS. Well, we may learn, if there be aught unseen
Suppressed within her grief-distempered soul,
By going within the palace. Ye say well:
There is a danger, even in too much silence.

CH. Ah! look where sadly comes our lord the King,
Bearing upon his arm a monument--
If we may speak it--of no foreign woe,
But of his own infirmity the fruit.

_Enter_ CREON _with the body of_ HAEMON.

CR. O error of my insensate soul,                                  I 1
Stubborn, and deadly in the fateful end!
O ye who now behold
Slayer and slain of the same kindred blood!
O bitter consequence of seeming-wise decree!
Alas, my son!
Strange to the world wert thou, and strange the fate
That took thee off, that slew thee; woe is me!
Not for thy rashness, but my folly. Ah me!

CH. Alas for him who sees the right too late!

CR. Alas!
I have learnt it now. But then upon my head
Some God had smitten with dire weight of doom;
And plunged me in a furious course, woe is me!
Discomforting and trampling on my joy.
Woe! for the bitterness of mortal pain!

_Enter_ 2nd Messenger.

2ND MESS. My lord and master. Thou art master here
Of nought but sorrows. One within thine arms
Thou bear'st with thee, and in thy palace hall
Thou hast possession of another grief,
Which soon thou shalt behold.

CR.                           What more of woe,
Or what more woeful, sounds anew from thee?

2ND MESS. The honoured mother of that corse, thy queen,
Is dead, and bleeding with a new-given wound.

CR. O horrible! O charnel gulf                                     I 2
Of death on death, not to be done away,
Why harrowest thou my soul?
Ill boding harbinger of woe, what word
Have thy lips uttered? Oh, thou hast killed me again,
Before undone!
What say'st? What were thy tidings? Woe is me!
Saidst thou a slaughtered queen in yonder hall
Lay in her blood, crowning the pile of ruin?

CH. No longer hidden in the house. Behold!
                              [_The Corpse of_ EURYDICE _is disclosed_

CR. Alas!
Again I see a new, a second woe.
What more calamitous stroke of Destiny
Awaits me still? But now mine arms enfold
My child, and lo! yon corse before my face!
Ah! hapless, hapless mother, hapless son!

2ND MESS. She with keen knife before the altar place[8]
Closed her dark orbs; but first lamented loud
The glorious bed of buried Megareus[9],
And then of Haemon; lastly clamoured forth
The curse of murdered offspring upon thee.

CR. Ay me! Ay me!                                                 II 1
I am rapt with terror. Is there none to strike me
With doubly sharpened blade a mortal blow?
Ah! I am plunged in fathomless distress.

2ND MESS. The guilt of this and of the former grief
By this dead lady was denounced on thee.

CR. Tell us, how ended she her life in blood?

2ND MESS. Wounding herself to the heart, when she had heard
The loud lamented death of Haemon here.

CR. O me! This crime can come
On no man else, exempting me.
I slew thee--I, O misery!
I say the truth, 'twas I! My followers,
Take me with speed--take me away, away!
Me, who am nothing now.

CH. Thou sayest the best, if there be best in woe.
Briefest is happiest in calamity.

CR. Ah! let it come,                                              II 2
The day, most welcome of all days to me,
That brings the consummation of my doom.
Come! Come! I would not see another sun.

CH. Time will determine that. We must attend
To present needs. Fate works her own dread work.

CR. All my desire was gathered in my prayer.

CH. But prayer is bootless. For to mortal men
There is no saviour from appointed woe.

CR. Take me away, the vain-proud man that slew
Thee, O my son! unwittingly,--and thee!
Me miserable, which way shall I turn,
Which look upon? Since all that I can touch
Is falling,--falling,--round me, and o'erhead
Intolerable destiny descends.

LEADER OF CHORUS.
Wise conduct hath command of happiness
Before all else, and piety to Heaven
Must be preserved. High boastings of the proud
Bring sorrow to the height to punish pride:--
A lesson men shall learn when they are old.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                 AIAS

                             THE PERSONS

ATHENA.
ODYSSEUS.
AIAS, _the son of Telamon._
CHORUS _of Salaminian Mariners._
TECMESSA.
_A Messenger._
TEUCER, _half brother of Aias._
MENELAUS.
AGAMEMNON.

EURYSAKES, _the child of Aias and Tecmessa, appears, but does not
speak._

SCENE. Before the encampment of Aias on the shore of the Troad.
Afterwards a lonely place beyond Rhoeteum.

Time, towards the end of the Trojan War.

                  _'A wounded spirit who can bear?'_

After the death of Achilles, the armour made for him by Hephaestus was
to be given to the worthiest of the surviving Greeks. Although Aias
was the most valiant, the judges made the award to Odysseus, because
he was the wisest.

Aias in his rage attempts to kill the generals; but Athena sends
madness upon him, and he makes a raid upon the flocks and herds of the
army, imagining the bulls and rams to be the Argive chiefs. On
awakening from his delusion, he finds that he has fallen irrecoverably
from honour and from the favour of the Greeks. He also imagines that
the anger of Athena is unappeasable. Under this impression he eludes
the loving eyes of his captive-bride Tecmessa, and of his Salaminian
comrades, and falls on his sword. ('The soul and body rive not more in
parting Than greatness going off.')

But it is revealed through the prophet Calchas, that the wrath of
Athena will last only for a day; and on the return of Teucer, Aias
receives an honoured funeral, the tyrannical reclamations of the two
sons of Atreus being overcome by the firm fidelity of Teucer and the
magnanimity of Odysseus, who has been inspired for this purpose by
Athena.

                                 AIAS

ATHENA (_above_). ODYSSEUS.

ATHENA. Oft have I seen thee, Laertiades,
Intent on some surprisal of thy foes;
As now I find thee by the seaward camp,
Where Aias holds the last place in your line,
Lingering in quest, and scanning the fresh print
Of his late footsteps, to be certified
If he keep house or no. Right well thy sense
Hath led thee forth, like some keen hound of Sparta!
The man is even but now come home, his head
And slaughterous hands reeking with ardent toil.
Thou, then, no longer strain thy gaze within
Yon gateway, but declare what eager chase
Thou followest, that a god may give thee light.

ODYSSEUS. Athena, 'tis thy voice! Dearest in heaven,
How well discerned and welcome to my soul
From that dim distance doth thine utterance fly
In tones as of Tyrrhenian trumpet clang!
Rightly hast thou divined mine errand here,
Beating this ground for Aias of the shield,
The lion-quarry whom I track to day.
For he hath wrought on us to night a deed
Past thought--if he be doer of this thing;
We drift in ignorant doubt, unsatisfied--
And I unbidden have bound me to this toil.

  Brief time hath flown since suddenly we knew
That all our gathered spoil was reaved and slaughtered,
Flocks, herds, and herdmen, by some human hand,
All tongues, then, lay this deed at Aias' door.
And one, a scout who had marked him, all alone,
With new-fleshed weapon bounding o'er the plain,
Gave me to know it, when immediately
I darted on the trail, and here in part
I find some trace to guide me, but in part
I halt, amazed, and know not where to look.
Thou com'st full timely. For my venturous course,
Past or to come, is governed by thy will.

ATH. I knew thy doubts, Odysseus, and came forth
Zealous to guard thy perilous hunting-path.

OD. Dear Queen! and am I labouring to an end?

ATH. Thou schem'st not idly. This is Aias' deed.

OD. What can have roused him to a work so wild?

ATH. His grievous anger for Achilles' arms.

OD. But wherefore on the flock this violent raid?

ATH. He thought to imbrue his hands with your heart's blood.

OD. What? Was this planned against the Argives, then?

ATH. Planned, and performed, had I kept careless guard.

OD. What daring spirit, what hardihood, was here!

ATH. Alone by night in craft he sought your tents.

OD. How? Came he near them? Won he to his goal?

ATH. He stood in darkness at the generals' gates.

OD. What then restrained his eager hand from murder?

ATH. I turned him backward from his baleful joy,
And overswayed him with blind phantasies,
To swerve against the flocks and well-watched herd
Not yet divided from the public booty.
There plunging in he hewed the horned throng,
And with him Havoc ranged: while now he thought
To kill the Atreidae with hot hand, now this
Now that commander, as the fancy grew.
I, joining with the tumult of his mind,
Flung the wild victim on the fatal net.
Anon, this toil being overpast, he draws
The living oxen and the panting sheep
With cords to his home, not as a horned prey,
But as in triumph marshalling his foes:
Whom now he tortures in their bonds within.
  Come, thou shalt see this madness in clear day,
And tell to the Argives all I show thee here
Only stand firm and shrink not, I will turn
His eyes askance, not to distinguish thee,
Fear nought--Ho! thou that bindest to thy will
The limbs of those thy captives, come thou forth!
Aias! advance before thy palace gate!

OD. My Queen! what dost thou? Never call him forth.

ATH. Hush, hush! Be not so timorous, but endure.

OD. Nay, nay! Enough. He is there, and let him bide.

ATH. What fear you? Dates his valour from to day?

OD. He was and is my valiant enemy.

ATH. Then is not laughter sweetest o'er a foe?

OD. No more! I care not he should pass abroad.

ATH. You flinch from seeing the madman in full view.

OD. When sane, I ne'er had flinched before his face.

ATH. Well, but even now he shall not know thee near.

OD. How, if his eyes be not transformed or lost?

ATH. I will confound his sense although he see.

OD. Well, nothing is too hard for Deity.

ATH. Stand still and keep thy place without a word.

OD. I must. Would I were far away from here!

ATH. Aias! Again I summon thee. Why pay
So scanty heed to her who fights for thee?

_Enter_ AIAS _with a bloody scourge._

AIAS. Hail, offspring of the Highest! Pallas, hail!
Well hast thou stood by me. Triumphal gold
Shall crown thy temple for this lordly prey.

ATH. A fair intention! But resolve me this:
Hast dyed thy falchion deep in Argive blood?

AI. There is my boast; that charge I'll ne'er deny.

ATH. Have Atreus' sons felt thy victorious might?

AI. They have. No more they'll make a scorn of me!

ATH. I take it, then, they are dead.

AI.                                  Ay, now they are dead,
Let them arise and rob me of mine arms!

ATH. Good. Next inform us of Laertes' son;
How stands his fortune? Hast thou let him go?

AI. The accursed fox! Dost thou inquire of him?

ATH. Ay, of Odysseus, thy late adversary.

AI. He sits within, dear lady, to my joy,
Bound; for I mean him not just yet to die.

ATH. What fine advantage wouldst thou first achieve?

AI. First, tie him to a pillar of my hall--

ATH. Poor wretch! What torment wilt thou wreak on him?

AI. Then stain his back with scourging till he die.

ATH. Nay, 'tis too much. Poor caitiff! Not the scourge!

AI. Pallas, in all things else have thou thy will,
But none shall wrest Odysseus from this doom.

ATH. Well, since thou art determined on the deed,
Spare nought of thine intent: indulge thy hand!

AI. (_waving the bloody scourge_).
I go! But thou, I charge thee, let thine aid
Be evermore like valiant as to-day.                            [_Exit_

ATH. The gods are strong, Odysseus. Dost thou see?
What man than Aias was more provident,
Or who for timeliest action more approved?

OD. I know of none. But, though he hates me sore,
I pity him, poor mortal, thus chained fast
To a wild and cruel fate,--weighing not so much
His fortune as mine own. For now I feel
All we who live are but an empty show
And idle pageant of a shadowy dream.

ATH. Then, warned by what thou seest, be thou not rash
To vaunt high words toward Heaven, nor swell thy port
Too proudly, if in puissance of thy hand
Thou passest others, or in mines of wealth.
Since Time abases and uplifts again
All that is human, and the modest heart
Is loved by Heaven, who hates the intemperate will.          [_Exeunt_

CHORUS (_entering_).
      Telamonian child, whose hand
      Guards our wave-encircled land,
      Salamis that breasts the sea,
      Good of thine is joy to me;
      But if One who reigns above
      Smite thee, or if murmurs move
      From fierce Danaaens in their hate
      Full of threatening to thy state,
      All my heart for fear doth sigh,
      Shrinking like a dove's soft eye.

      Hardly had the darkness waned,                 [_Half-Chorus I._
      When our ears were filled and pained
      With huge scandal on thy fame.
      Telling, thine the arm that came
      To the cattle-browsed mead,
      Wild with prancing of the steed,
      And that ravaged there and slew
      With a sword of fiery hue
      All the spoils that yet remain,
      By the sweat of spearmen ta'en.

      Such report against thy life,                 [_Half-Chorus II._
      Whispered words with falsehood rife,
      Wise Odysseus bringing near
      Shrewdly gaineth many an ear:
      Since invention against thee
      Findeth hearing speedily,
      Tallying with the moment's birth;
      And with loudly waxing mirth
      Heaping insult on thy grief,
      Each who hears it glories more
      Than the tongue that told before.
      Every slander wins belief
      Aimed at souls whose worth is chief:
      Shot at me, or one so small,
      Such a bolt might harmless fall.
      Ever toward the great and high
      Creepeth climbing jealousy
      Yet the low without the tall
      Make at need a tottering wall
      Let the strong the feeble save
      And the mean support the brave.

CHORUS
      Ah! 'twere vain to tune such song
      'Mid the nought discerning throng
      Who are clamouring now 'gainst thee
      Long and loud, and strengthless we,
      Mighty chieftain, thou away,
      To withstand the gathering fray
      Flocking fowl with carping cry
      Seem they, lurking from thine eye,
      Till the royal eagle's poise
      Overawe the paltry noise
      Till before thy presence hushed
      Sudden sink they, mute and crushed.

Did bull slaying Artemis, Zeus' cruel daughter                     I 1
  (Ah, fearful rumour, fountain of my shame!)
Prompt thy fond heart to this disastrous slaughter
  Of the full herd stored in our army's name!
Say, had her blood stained temple[1] missed the kindness
  Of some vow promised fruit of victory,
Foiled of some glorious armour through thy blindness,
  Or fell some stag ungraced by gift from thee?
Or did stern Ares venge his thankless spear
Through this night foray that hath cost thee dear!

For never, if thy heart were not distracted                        I 2
  By stings from Heaven, O child of Telamon,
Wouldst thou have bounded leftward, to have acted
  Thus wildly, spoiling all our host hath won!
Madness might fall some heavenly power forfend it
  But if Odysseus and the tyrant lords
Suggest a forged tale, O rise to end it,
  Nor fan the fierce flame of their withering words!
Forth from thy tent, and let thine eye confound
The brood of Sisyphus[2] that would thee wound!

Too long hast thou been fixed in grim repose,                      III
  Heightening the haughty malice of thy foes,
That, while thou porest by the sullen sea,
  Through breezy glades advanceth fearlessly,
A mounting blaze with crackling laughter fed
From myriad throats; whence pain and sorrow bred
Within my bosom are established.

_Enter_ TECMESSA.

TECMESSA. Helpers of Aias' vessel's speed,
Erechtheus' earth-derived seed,
Sorrows are ours who truly care
For the house of Telamon afar.
The dread, the grand, the rugged form
      Of him we know,
Is stricken with a troublous storm;
    Our Aias' glory droopeth low.

CHORUS. What burden through the darkness fell
Where still at eventide 'twas well?
Phrygian Teleutas' daughter, say;
Since Aias, foremost in the fray,
Disdaining not the spear-won bride,
Still holds thee nearest at his side,
And thou may'st solve our doubts aright.

TEC. How shall I speak the dreadful word?
How shall ye live when ye have heard?
Madness hath seized our lord by night
And blasted him with hopeless blight.
Such horrid victims mightst thou see
Huddled beneath yon canopy,
Torn by red hands and dyed in blood,
Dread offerings to his direful mood.

CH. What news of our fierce lord thy story showeth,                  1
    Sharp to endure, impossible to fly!
News that on tongues of Danaaens hourly groweth,
    Which Rumour's myriad voices multiply!
Alas! the approaching doom awakes my terror.
    The man will die, disgraced in open day,
Whose dark dyed steel hath dared through mad brained error
    The mounted herdmen with their herds to slay.

TEC. O horror! Then 'twas there he found
      The flock he brought as captives tied,
    And some he slew upon the ground,
      And some, side smiting, sundered wide
    Two white foot rams he backward drew,
    And bound. Of one he shore and threw
    The tipmost tongue and head away,
    The other to an upright stay
    He tied, and with a harness thong
      Doubled in hand, gave whizzing blows,
    Echoing his lashes with a song
      More dire than mortal fury knows.

CH. Ah! then 'tis time, our heads in mantles hiding,                 2
    Our feet on some stol'n pathway now to ply,
Or with swift oarage o'er the billows gliding,
    With ordered stroke to make the good ship fly
Such threats the Atridae, armed with two fold power,
    Launch to assail us. Oh, I sadly fear
Stones from fierce hands on us and him will shower,
    Whose heavy plight no comfort may come near.

TEC. 'Tis changed, his rage, like sudden blast,
    Without the lightning gleam is past
    And now that Reason's light returns,
    New sorrow in his spirit burns.
    For when we look on self made woe,
      In which no hand but ours had part,
    Thought of such griefs and whence they flow
      Brings aching misery to the heart.

CH. If he hath ceased to rave, he should do well
The account of evil lessens when 'tis past.

TEC. If choice were given you, would you rather choose
Hurting your friends, yourself to feel delight,
Or share with them in one commingled pain?

CH. The two fold trouble is more terrible.

TEC. Then comes our torment now the fit is o'er.

CH. How mean'st thou by that word? I fail to see.

TEC. He in his rage had rapture of delight
And knew not how he grieved us who stood near
And saw the madding tempest ruining him.
But now 'tis over and he breathes anew,
The counterblast of sorrow shakes his soul,
Whilst our affliction vexeth as before,
Have we not double for our single woe?

CH. I feel thy reasoning move me, and I fear
Some heavenly stroke hath fallen. How else, when the end
Of stormy sickness brings no cheering ray?

TEC. Our state is certain. Dream not but 'tis so.

CH. How first began the assault of misery?
Tell us the trouble, for we share the pain.

TEC. It toucheth you indeed, and ye shall hear
All from the first. 'Twas midnight, and the lamp
Of eve had died, when, seizing his sharp blade,
He sought on some vain errand to creep forth.
I broke in with my word: 'Aias, what now?
Why thus uncalled for salliest thou? No voice
Of herald summoned thee. No trumpet blew.
What wouldst thou when the camp is hushed in sleep?'
He with few words well known to women's ears
Checked me: 'The silent partner is the best.'
I saw how 'twas and ceased. Forth then he fared
Alone--What horror passed upon the plain
This night, I know not. But he drags within,
Tied in a throng, bulls, shepherd dogs, and spoil
Of cattle and sheep. Anon he butchers them,
Felling or piercing, hacking or tearing wide,
Ribs from breast, limb from limb. Others in rage
He seized and bound and tortured, brutes for men.
Last, out he rushed before the doors, and there
Whirled forth wild language to some shadowy form,
Flouting the generals and Laertes' son
With torrent laughter and loud triumphing
What in his raid he had wreaked to their despite.
Then diving back within--the fitful storm
Slowly assuaging left his spirit clear.
And when his eye had lightened through the room
Cumbered with ruin, smiting on his brow
He roared; and, tumbling down amid the wreck
Of woolly carnage he himself had made,
Sate with clenched hand tight twisted in his hair.
Long stayed he so in silence. Then flashed forth
Those frightful words of threatening vehemence,
That bade me show him all the night's mishap,
And whither he was fallen I, dear my friends,
Prevailed on through my fear, told all I knew.
And all at once he raised a bitter cry,
Which heretofore I ne'er had heard, for still
He made us think such doleful utterance
Betokened the dull craven spirit, and still
Dumb to shrill wailings, he would only moan
With half heard muttering, like an angry bull.
But now, by such dark fortune overpowered,
Foodless and dry, amid the quivering heap
His steel hath quelled, all quietly he broods;
And out of doubt his mind intends some harm:
Such words, such groans, burst from him. O my friends.--
Therefore I hastened,--enter and give aid
If aught ye can! Men thus forgone will oft
Grow milder through the counsel of a friend.

CH. Teleutas' child! we shudder at thy tale
That fatal frenzy wastes our hero's soul.

AIAS (_within_). Woe's me, me, me!

TEC. More cause anon! Hear ye not Aias there,
How sharp the cry that shrills from him?

AI.                                      Woe! Woe!

CH. Madly it sounds--Or springs it of deep grief
For proofs of madness harrowing to his eye?

AI. Boy, boy!

TEC.          What means he? Oh, Eurysakes!
He cries on thee. Where art thou? O my heart!

AI. Teucer I call! Where 's Teucer? Will he ne'er
Come from the chase, but leave me to my doom?

CH. Not madness now. Disclose him. Let us look.
Haply the sight of us may calm his soul.

TEC. There, then; I open to your view the form
Of Aias, and his fortunes as they are.           [AIAS _is discovered_

AI. Dear comrades of the deep, whose truth and love                I 1
    Stand forth alone unbroken in my woe,
        Behold what gory sea
        Of storm-lashed agony
    Doth round and round me flow!

CH. (_to_ TEC.) Too true thy witness: for the fact cries out
Wild thoughts were here and Reason's lamp extinct.

AI. Strong helpers of sea-speed, whose nimble hand                 I 2
    Plied hither the salt oar with circling stroke,
        No shepherd there was found
        To give the avenging wound.
    Come, lay me with the flock!

CH. Speak no rash word! nor curing ill with ill
Augment the plague of this calamity.

AI.     Mark ye the brave and bold,                               II 1
        Whom none could turn of old,
    When once he set his face to the fierce fight?
        Now beasts that thought no harm
        Have felt this puissant arm.
    O laughter of my foes! O mockery of my might!

TEC. Aias, my lord! I entreat thee, speak not so!

AI. Thou here! Away! begone, and trouble me not!
O! O!

CH.   Be softened! bear a steadier mind!

AI. O heaven-accursed hand
      That let the ruffians go,
    But falling 'midst the horn'd and bleating band,
      Made darkling blood-streams flow!

CH. Why vex thy heart with what is over and done?
Do what we may, this ne'er will alter now.

AI.     Child of Laertes old,                                     II 2
        Thou that dost still behold
    And still contrive all shapes of monstrous ill,
        Winding in foulest ways
        Through the army's sinful maze,--
    Now even for pleasure thou may'st laugh thy fill.

CH. Laughter and tears are in the gift of God.

AI. Ay, might I see him, though thus broken,--ay me!
Even yet--

CH. Nay, vaunt not. Look where thou art fallen.

AI.   Source where my life-blood springs,
        O Zeus, might I but slay
    That crafty plague, with those twin-sceptred kings,
      Then breathe my life away!

TEC. Pray thus, and pray that I too be no more!
If thou wert gone, what were my life to me?

AI. Darkness! my only light!                                     III 1
    O nether gloom, to me
    Brighter than morning to the wakeful eye!
    Take me to dwell with thee.
    Take me! What help? Zeus' daughter with fell might
    Torments me sore. I may not look on high,
    Nor to the tribe of momentary men.--
    Oh, whither, then,
    Should it avail to fly?
    Ah! whither should I go and stay?
    All here is ruin. This mad prey
    Shames me for evermore:
    Vengeance is at the door;
    Yea, all the Achaean host, with armed hand,
    Is ready at command
    To slay me o'er and o'er.

TEC. Woe 's me! to hear from one so good and true
Words he had scorned to utter in past days.

AI. Grey firths of foaming brine,                                III 2
And ye, deep groves, that crown
The sea-caves and long cliffs upon the shore,
Too long did ye confine
My life about the walls of Troia's town:
But no more now! a breathing man, no more!
The wise in heart may duly learn that lore.
Let Xanthus know,
Whose waters neighbouring flow,
And minister to Argive men:
One man he ne'er shall see again;
One, I will vaunt it forth!
Highest in warlike worth
Of all Greek forms that Troia's towers have eyed:
Now, shorn of all that pride,
I lie thus low.

CH. I know not how to let thee speak, nor how
To silence thee. Such evils close thee round.

AI. Ay me!
           Could human thought have prophesied
My name would thus give echo to mine ill?
'Ai' now for Aias, doubly, trebly said,
Sorts all too well to mark my misery;
Whose father from this land of Troy, as noblest
Of all the host, carrying the fairest prize,
Came girt about with glory to his home.
But I his son, not less of might than he,
Nor poorer in the achievements of my hand,
To this same region following in my prime,
Am scouted by the Achaeans and destroyed.
Yet know I one thing well. Had Peleus' child,
Living, adjudged his armour as a meed
Of well-tried bravery, no grasp save mine
Had clutched it. But the Atridae with mean craft
Conveyed his heirloom to a wit-proud knave,
Whilst Aias' peerless prowess was despised.
And had not this mine eye and mind distraught
Glanced from my purpose, ne'er again had they
Perverted judgement. But the invincible
Stern daughter of the Highest, with baneful eye,
Even as mine arm descended, baffled me,
And hurled upon my soul a frenzied plague,
To stain my hand with these dumb victims' blood.
And those mine enemies exult in safety,--
Not with my will; but where a God misguides,
Strong arms are thwarted and the weakling lives.
  Now, what remains? Heaven hates me, 'tis too clear:
The Grecian host abhor me: Troy, with all
This country round our camp, is my sworn foe.
Shall I, across the Aegean sailing home,
Leave these Atridae and their fleet forlorn?
How shall I dare to front my father's eye?
How will he once endure to look on me,
Denuded of the prize of high renown,
Whose coronal stood sparkling on his brow?
No! 'twere too dreadful. Then shall I advance
Before the Trojan battlements, and there
In single conflict doing valiantly
Last die upon their spears? Nay, for by this
I might perchance make Atreus' offspring glad.
That may not be imagined. I must find
Some act to let my grey-haired father feel
No heartless recreant once called him sire.
Shame on the wight who when beset with ill
Cares to live on in misery unrelieved.
Can hour outlasting hour make less or more
Of death? Whereby then can it furnish joy?
That mortal weighs for nothing-worth with me,
Whom Hope can comfort with her fruitless fire.
Honour in life or honour in the grave
Befits the noble heart. You hear my will.

CH. From thine own spirit, Aias, all may tell,
That utterance came, and none have prompted thee.
Yet stay thy hurrying thought, and by thy friends
Be ruled to loose this burden from thy mind.

TEC. O my great master! heaviest of all woe
Is theirs whose life is crushed beyond recall.
I, born of one the mightiest of the free
And wealthiest in the Phrygian land, am now
A captive. So Heaven willed, and thy strong arm
Determined. Therefore, since the hour that made
My being one with thine, I breathe for thee;
And I beseech thee by the sacred fire
Of home, and by the sweetness of the night
When from thy captive I became thy bride,
Leave me not guardless to the unworthy touch
And cruel taunting of thine enemies'
For, shouldst thou die and leave us, then shall I
Borne off by Argive violence with thy boy
Eat from that day the bread of slavery.
And some one of our lords shall smite me there
With galling speech: Behold the concubine
Of Aias, first of all the Greeks for might,
How envied once, worn with what service now!
So will they speak; and while my quailing heart
Shall sink beneath its burden, clouds of shame
Will dim thy glory and degrade thy race.
Oh! think but of thy father, left to pine
In doleful age, and let thy mother's grief--
Who, long bowed down with many a careful year,
Prays oftentimes thou may'st return alive--
O'er awe thee. Yea, and pity thine own son,
Unsheltered in his boyhood, lorn of thee,
With bitter foes to tend his orphanhood,
Think, O my lord, what sorrow in thy death
Thou send'st on him and me. For I have nought
To lean to but thy life. My fatherland
Thy spear hath ruined. Fate--not thou--hath sent
My sire and mother to the home of death
What wealth have I to comfort me for thee?
What land of refuge? Thou art all my stay
Oh, of me too take thought! Shall men have joy,
And not remember? Or shall kindness fade?
Say, can the mind be noble, where the stream
Of gratitude is withered from the spring?

CH. Aias, I would thy heart were touched like mine
With pity; then her words would win thy praise.

AI. My praise she shall not miss, if she perform
My bidding with firm heart, and fail not here.

TEC. Dear Aias, I will fail in nought thou bidst me.

AI. Bring me my boy, that I may see his face.

TEC. Oh, in my terror I conveyed him hence!

AI. Clear of this mischief, mean'st thou? or for what?

TEC. Lest he might run to thee, poor child, and die.

AI. That issue had been worthy of my fate!

TEC. But I kept watch to fence his life from harm.

AI. 'Twas wisely done. I praise thy foresight there.

TEC. Well, since 'tis so, how can I help thee now?

AI. Give me to speak to him and see him near.

TEC. He stands close by with servants tending him.

AI. Then why doth he not come, but still delay?

TEC. Thy father calls thee, child. Come, lead him hither,
Whichever of you holds him by the hand.

AI. Moves he? or do thine accents idly fall?

TEC. See, where thy people bring him to thine eye.

AI. Lift him to me: lift him! He will not fear
At sight of this fresh havoc of the sword,
If rightly he be fathered of my blood.
Like some young colt he must be trained and taught
To run fierce courses with his warrior sire.
Be luckier than thy father, boy! but else
Be like him, and thy life will not be low.
One thing even now I envy thee, that none
Of all this misery pierces to thy mind.
For life is sweetest in the void of sense,
Ere thou know joy or sorrow. But when this
Hath found thee, make thy father's enemies
Feel the great parent in the valiant child.
Meantime grow on in tender youthfulness,
Nursed by light breezes, gladdening this thy mother.
No Greek shall trample thee with brutal harm,
That I know well, though I shall not be near--
So stout a warder to protect thy life
I leave in Teucer. He'll not fail, though now
He follow far the chase upon his foes.
My trusty warriors, people of the sea,
Be this your charge, no less,--and bear to him
My clear commandment, that he take this boy
Home to my fatherland, and make him known
To Telamon, and Eriboea too,
My mother. Let him tend them in their age.
And, for mine armour, let not that be made
The award of Grecian umpires or of him
Who ruined me. But thou, named of the shield[3],
Eurysakes, hold mine, the unpierceable
Seven-hided buckler, and by the well stitched thong
Grasp firm and wield it mightily.--The rest
Shall lie where I am buried.--Take him now,
Quickly, and close the door. No tears! What! weep
Before the tent? How women crave for pity!
Make fast, I say. No wise physician dreams
With droning charms to salve a desperate sore.

CH. There sounds a vehement ardour in thy words
That likes me not. I fear thy sharpened tongue.

TEC. Aias, my lord, what act is in thy mind?

AI. Inquire not, question not; be wise, thou'rt best.

TEC. How my heart sinks! Oh, by thy child, by Heaven,
I pray thee on my knees, forsake us not!

AI. Thou troublest me. What! know'st thou not that Heaven
Hath ceased to be my debtor from to-day?

TEC. Hush! Speak not so.

AI.                      Speak thou to those that hear.

TEC. Will you not hear me?

AI.                        Canst thou not be still?

TEC. My fears, my fears!

AI. (_to the_ Attendants). Come, shut me in, I say.

TEC. Oh, yet be softened!

AI.                       'Tis a foolish hope,
If thou deem'st now to mould me to thy will.
                                   [Aias _is withdrawn. Exit_ Tecmessa

CHORUS.
Island of glory! whom the glowing eyes                             I 1
Of all the wondering world immortalize,
Thou, Salamis, art planted evermore,
Happy amid the wandering billows' roar;
While I--ah, woe the while!--this weary time,
  By the green wold where flocks from Ida stray,
Lie worn with fruitless hours of wasted prime,
  Hoping--ah, cheerless hope!--to win my way
Where Hades' horrid gloom shall hide me from the day.

Aias is with me, yea, but crouching low,                           I 2
Where Heaven-sent madness haunts his overthrow,
Beyond my cure or tendance: woful plight!
Whom thou, erewhile, to head the impetuous fight,
Sent'st forth, thy conquering champion. Now he feeds
  His spirit on lone paths, and on us brings
Deep sorrow; and all his former peerless deeds
Of prowess fall like unremembered things
From Atreus' loveless brood, this caitiff brace of kings.

Ah! when his mother, full of days and bowed                       II 1
With hoary eld, shall hear his ruined mind,
      How will she mourn aloud!
Not like the warbler of the dale,
      The bird of piteous wail,
But in shrill strains far borne upon the wind,
While on the withered breast and thin white hair
Falls the resounding blow, the rending of despair.

Best hid in death were he whom madness drives                     II 2
Remediless; if, through his father's race
      Born to the noblest place
Among the war-worn Greeks, he lives
      By his own light no more,
Self-aliened from the self he knew before.
Oh, hapless sire, what woe thine ear shall wound!
One that of all thy line no life save this hath found.

_Enter_ Aias _with a bright sword, and_ Tecmessa, _severally._

AI. What change will never-terminable Time
Not heave to light, what hide not from the day?
What chance shall win men's marvel? Mightiest oaths
Fall frustrate, and the steely-tempered will.
Ay, and even mine, that stood so diamond-keen
Like iron lately dipped, droops now dis-edged
And weakened by this woman, whom to leave
A widow with her orphan to my foes,
Dulls me with pity. I will go to the baths
And meadows near the cliff, and purging there
My dark pollution, I will screen my soul
From reach of Pallas' grievous wrath. I will find
Same place untrodden, and digging of the soil
Where none shall see, will bury this my sword,
Weapon of hate! for Death and Night to hold
Evermore underground. For, since my hand
Had this from Hector mine arch-enemy,
No kindness have I known from Argive men.
So true that saying of the bygone world,
'A foe's gift is no gift, and brings no good.'
  Well, we will learn of Time. Henceforth I'll bow
To heavenly ordinance and give homage due
To Atreus' sons. Who rules, must be obeyed.
Since nought so fierce and terrible but yields
Place to Authority. Wild Winter's snows
Make way for bounteous Summer's flowery tread,
And Night's sad orb retires for lightsome Day
With his white steeds to illumine the glad sky.
The furious storm-blast leaves the groaning sea
Gently to rest. Yea, the all-subduer Sleep
Frees whom he binds, nor holds enchained for aye.
And shall not men be taught the temperate will?
Yea, for I now know surely that my foe
Must be so hated, as being like enough
To prove a friend hereafter, and my friend
So far shall have mine aid, as one whose love
Will not continue ever. Men have found
But treacherous harbour in companionship.
  Our ending, then, is peaceful. Thou, my girl,
Go in and pray the Gods my heart's desire
Be all fulfilled. My comrades, join her here,
Honouring my wishes; and if Teucer come,
Bid him toward us be mindful, kind toward you.
I must go--whither I must go. Do ye
But keep my word, and ye may learn, though now
Be my dark hour, that all with me is well.
                       [_Exit towards the country._ Tecmessa _retires_

CHORUS.
A shudder of love thrills through me. Joy! I soar                    1
      O Pan, wild Pan!                                   [_They dance_
      Come from Cyllene hoar--
Come from the snow drift, the rock-ridge, the glen!
      Leaving the mountain bare
      Fleet through the salt sea-air,
Mover of dances to Gods and to men.
Whirl me in Cnossian ways--thrid me the Nysian maze!
Come, while the joy of the dance is my care!
      Thou too, Apollo, come
      Bright from thy Delian home,
          Bringer of day,
      Fly o'er the southward main
      Here in our hearts to reign,
Loved to repose there and kindly to stay.

Horror is past. Our eyes have rest from pain.                        2
        O Lord of Heaven!                                [_They dance_
        Now blithesome day again
Purely may smile on our swift-sailing fleet,
        Since, all his woe forgot,
        Aias now faileth not
Aught that of prayer and Heaven-worship is meet.
Time bringeth mighty aid--nought but in time doth fade:
Nothing shall move me as strange to my thought.
        Aias our lord hath now
        Cleared his wrath-burdened brow
          Long our despair,
        Ceased from his angry feud
        And with mild heart renewed
Peace and goodwill to the high-sceptred pair.

_Enter_ Messenger.

MESSENGER. Friends, my first news is Teucer's presence here,
Fresh from the Mysian heights; who, as he came
Right toward the generals' quarter, was assailed
With outcry from the Argives in a throng:
For when they knew his motion from afar
They swarmed around him, and with shouts of blame
From each side one and all assaulted him
As brother to the man who had gone mad
And plotted 'gainst the host,--threatening aloud,
Spite of his strength, he should be stoned, and die.
--So far strife ran, that swords unscabbarded
Crossed blades, till as it mounted to the height
Age interposed with counsel, and it fell.
  But where is Aias to receive my word?
Tidings are best told to the rightful ear.

CH. Not in the hut, but just gone forth, preparing
New plans to suit his newly altered mind.

MESS. Alas!
Too tardy then was he who sped me hither;
Or I have proved too slow a messenger.

CH. What point is lacking for thine errand's speed?

MESS. Teucer was resolute the man should bide
Close held within-doors till himself should come.

CH. Why, sure his going took the happiest turn
And wisest, to propitiate Heaven's high wrath.

MESS. The height of folly lives in such discourse,
If Calchas have the wisdom of a seer.

CH. What knowest thou of our state? What saith he? Tell.

MESS. I can tell only what I heard and saw.
Whilst all the chieftains and the Atridae twain
Were seated in a ring, Calchas alone
Rose up and left them, and in Teucer's palm
Laid his right hand full friendly; then out-spake
With strict injunction by all means i' the world
To keep beneath yon covert this one day
Your hero, and not suffer him to rove,
If he would see him any more alive.
For through this present light--and ne'er again---
Holy Athena, so he said, will drive him
Before her anger. Such calamitous woe
Strikes down the unprofitable growth that mounts
Beyond his measure and provokes the sky.
'Thus ever,' said the prophet, 'must he fall
Who in man's mould hath thoughts beyond a man.
And Aias, ere he left his father's door,
Made foolish answer to his prudent sire.
  'My son,' said Telamon, 'choose victory
Always, but victory with an aid from Heaven.'
How loftily, how madly, he replied!
'Father, with heavenly help men nothing worth
May win success. But I am confident
Without the Gods to pluck this glory down.'
So huge the boast he vaunted! And again
When holy Pallas urged him with her voice
To hurl his deadly spear against the foe,
He turned on her with speech of awful sound:
  'Goddess, by other Greeks take thou thy stand;
Where I keep rank, the battle ne'er shall break.'
Such words of pride beyond the mortal scope
Have won him Pallas' wrath, unlovely meed.
But yet, perchance, so be it he live to-day,
We, with Heaven's succour, may restore his peace.'--
Thus far the prophet, when immediately
Teucer dispatched me, ere the assembly rose,
Bearing to thee this missive to be kept
With all thy care. But if my speed be lost,
And Calchas' word have power, the man is dead.

CH. O trouble-tost Tecmessa, born to woe,
Come forth and see what messenger is here!
This news bites near the bone, a death to joy.

_Enter_ TECMESSA.

TEC. Wherefore again, when sorrow's cruel storm
Was just abating, break ye my repose?

CH. (_pointing to the_ Messenger).
Hear what he saith, and how he comes to bring
News of our Aias that hath torn my heart.

TEC. Oh me! what is it, man? Am I undone?

MESS. Thy case I know not; but of Aias this,
That if he roam abroad, 'tis dangerous.

TEC. He is, indeed, abroad. Oh! tell me quickly!

MESS. 'Tis Teucer's strong command to keep him close
Beneath this roof, nor let him range alone.

TEC. But where is Teucer? and what means his word?

MESS. Even now at hand, and eager to make known
That Aias, if he thus go forth, must fall.

TEC. Alas! my misery! Whence learned he this?

MESS. From Thestor's prophet-offspring, who to-day
Holds forth to Aias choice of life or death.

TEC. Woe's me! O friends, this desolating blow
Is falling! Oh, stand forward to prevent!
And some bring Teucer with more haste, while some
Explore the western bays and others search
Eastward to find your hero's fatal path!
For well I see I am cheated and cast forth
From the old favour. Child, what shall I do?   [_Looking at_ EURYSAKES
We must not stay. I too will fare along,
go far as I have power. Come, let us go.
Bestir ye! 'Tis no moment to sit still,
If we would save him who now speeds to die.

CH. I am ready. Come! Fidelity of foot,
And swift performance, shall approve me true.          [_Exeunt omnes_

_The scene changes to a lonely wooded spot._

AIAS (_discovered alone_).
The sacrificer stands prepared,--and when
More keen? Let me take time for thinking, too!
This gift of Hector, whom of stranger men
I hated most with heart and eyes, is set
In hostile Trojan soil, with grinding hone
Fresh-pointed, and here planted by my care
Thus firm, to give me swift and friendly death.
Fine instrument, so much for thee! Then, first,
Thou, for 'tis meet, great Father, lend thine aid.
For no great gift I sue thee. Let some voice
Bear Teucer the ill news, that none but he
May lift my body, newly fallen in death
About my bleeding sword, ere I be spied
By some of those who hate me, and be flung
To dogs and vultures for an outcast prey.
So far I entreat thee, Lord of Heaven. And thou,
Hermes, conductor of the shadowy dead,
Speed me to rest, and when with this sharp steel
I have cleft a sudden passage to my heart,
At one swift bound waft me to painless slumber!
But most be ye my helpers, awful Powers,
Who know no blandishments, but still perceive
All wicked deeds i' the world--strong, swift, and sure,
Avenging Furies, understand my wrong,
See how my life is ruined, and by whom.
Come, ravin on Achaean flesh--spare none;
Rage through the camp!--Last, thou that driv'st thy course
Up yon steep Heaven, thou Sun, when thou behold'st
My fatherland, checking thy golden rein,
Report my fall, and this my fatal end,
To my old sire, and the poor soul who tends him.
Ah, hapless one! when she shall hear this word,
How she will make the city ring with woe!
  'Twere from the business idly to condole.
To work, then, and dispatch. O Death! O Death!
Now come, and welcome! Yet with thee, hereafter,
I shall find close communion where I go.
But unto thee, fresh beam of shining Day,
And thee, thou travelling Sun-god, I may speak
Now, and no more for ever. O fair light!
O sacred fields of Salamis my home!
Thou, firm set natal hearth: Athens renowned,
And ye her people whom I love; O rivers,
Brooks, fountains here--yea, even the Trojan plain
I now invoke!--kind fosterers, farewell!
This one last word from Aias peals to you:
Henceforth my speech will be with souls unseen.  [_Falls on his sword_

CHORUS (_re-entering severally_).

CH. A.  Toil upon toil brings toil,
        And what save trouble have I?
        Which path have I not tried?
        And never a place arrests me with its tale.
        Hark! lo, again a sound!

CH. B.  'Tis we, the comrades of your good ship's crew.

CH. A.  Well, sirs?

CH. B.  We have trodden all the westward arm o' the bay.

CH. A.  Well, have ye found?

CH. B.  Troubles enow, but nought to inform our sight.

CH. A.  Nor yet along the road that fronts the dawn
        Is any sign of Aias to be seen.

CH. Who then will tell me, who? What hard sea-liver,                 1
        What toiling fisher in his sleepless quest,
    What Mysian nymph, what oozy Thracian river,
        Hath seen our wanderer of the tameless breast?
            Where? tell me where!
    'Tis hard that I, far-toiling voyager,
          Crossed by some evil wind,
          Cannot the haven find,
    Nor catch his form that flies me, where? ah! where?

TEC. (_behind_). Oh, woe is me! woe, woe!

CH. A. Who cries there from the covert of the grove?

TEC. O boundless misery!

CH. B. Steeped in this audible sorrow I behold
Tecmessa, poor fate-burdened bride of war.

TEC. Friends, I am spoiled, lost, ruined, overthrown!

CH. A. What ails thee now?

TEC. See where our Aias lies, but newly slain,
Fallen on his sword concealed within the ground,

CH.   Woe for my hopes of home!
        Aias, my lord, thou hast slain
      Thy ship-companion on the salt sea foam.
        Alas for us, and thee,
        Child of calamity!

TEC. So lies our fortune. Well may'st thou complain.

CH. A. Whose hand employed he for the deed of blood?

TEC. His own, 'tis manifest. This planted steel,
Fixed by his hand, gives verdict from his breast.

CH.   Woe for my fault, my loss!
        Thou hast fallen in blood alone,
      And not a friend to cross
        Or guard thee. I, deaf, senseless as a stone,
Left all undone. Oh, where, then, lies the stern
Aias, of saddest name, whose purpose none might turn?

TEC. No eye shall see him. I will veil him round
With this all covering mantle; since no heart
That loved him could endure to view him there,
With ghastly expiration spouting forth
From mouth and nostrils, and the deadly wound,
The gore of his self slaughter. Ah, my lord!
What shall I do? What friend will carry thee?
Oh, where is Teucer! Timely were his hand,
Might he come now to smooth his brother's corse.
O thou most noble, here ignobly laid,
Even enemies methinks must mourn thy fate!

CH.   Ah! 'twas too clear thy firm knit thoughts would fashion,        2
        Early or late, an end of boundless woe!
      Such heaving groans, such bursts of heart-bruised passion,
        Midnight and morn, bewrayed the fire below.
            'The Atridae might beware!'
    A plenteous fount of pain was opened there,
            What time the strife was set,
            Wherein the noblest met,
    Grappling the golden prize that kindled thy despair!

TEC. Woe, woe is me!

CH. Deep sorrow wrings thy soul, I know it well.

TEC. O woe, woe, woe!

CH. Thou may'st prolong thy moan, and be believed,
Thou that hast lately lost so true a friend.

TEC. Thou may'st imagine; 'tis for me to know.

CH. Ay, ay, 'tis true.

TEC. Alas, my child! what slavish tasks and hard
We are drifting to! What eyes control our will!

CH.   Ay me! Through thy complaint
          I hear the wordless blow
      Of two high-throned, who rule without restraint
          Of Pity. Heaven forfend
          What evil they intend!

TEC. The work of Heaven hath brought our life thus low.

CH. 'Tis a sore burden to be laid on men.

TEC. Yet such the mischief Zeus' resistless maid,
Pallas, hath planned to make Odysseus glad.

CH.   O'er that dark-featured soul
      What waves of pride shall roll,
      What floods of laughter flow,
      Rudely to greet this madness-prompted woe,
Alas! from him who all things dares endure,
And from that lordly pair, who hear, and seat them sure!

TEC. Ay, let them laugh and revel o'er his fall!
Perchance, albeit in life they missed him not,
Dead, they will cry for him in straits of war.
For dullards know not goodness in their hand,
Nor prize the jewel till 'tis cast away.
To me more bitter than to them 'twas sweet,
His death to him was gladsome, for he found
The lot he longed for, his self-chosen doom.
What cause have they to laugh? Heaven, not their crew,
Hath glory by his death. Then let Odysseus
Insult with empty pride. To him and his
Aias is nothing; but to me, to me,
He leaves distress and sorrow in his room!

TEUCER (_within_). Alas, undone!

LEADER OF CH. Hush! that was Teucer's cry. Methought I heard
His voice salute this object of dire woe.

_Enter_ TEUCER.

TEU. Aias, dear brother, comfort of mine eye,
Hast thou then done even as the rumour holds?

CH. Be sure of that, Teucer. He lives no more.

TEU. Oh, then how heavy is the lot I bear!

CH. Yes, thou hast cause--

TEU.                       O rash assault of woe!--

CH. To mourn full loud.

TEU.                    Ay me! and where, oh where
On Trojan earth, tell me, is this man's child?

CH. Beside the huts, untended.

TEU. (_to_ TEC).          Oh, with haste
Go bring him hither, lest some enemy's hand
Snatch him, as from the lion's widowed mate
The lion-whelp is taken. Spare not speed.
All soon combine in mockery o'er the dead.            [_Exit_ TECMESSA

CH. Even such commands he left thee ere he died.
As thou fulfillest by this timely care.

TEU. O sorest spectacle mine eyes e'er saw!
Woe for my journey hither, of all ways
Most grievous to my heart, since I was ware,
Dear Aias, of thy doom, and sadly tracked
Thy footsteps. For there darted through the host,
As from some God, a swift report of thee
That thou wert lost in death. I, hapless, heard,
And mourned even then for that whose presence kills me.
Ay me! But come,
Unveil. Let me behold my misery.  [_The corpse of_ AIAS _is uncovered_
O sight unbearable! Cruelly brave!
Dying, what store of griefs thou sow'st for me!
Where, amongst whom of mortals, can I go,
That stood not near thee in thy troublous hour?
Will Telamon, my sire and thine, receive me
With radiant countenance and favouring brow
Returning without thee? Most like! being one
Who smiles no more[4], yield Fortune what she may.
Will he hide aught or soften any word,
Rating the bastard of his spear-won thrall,
Whose cowardice and dastardy betrayed
Thy life, dear Aias,--or my murderous guile,
To rob thee of thy lordship and thy home?
Such greeting waits me from the man of wrath,
Whose testy age even without cause would storm.
Last, I shall leave my land a castaway,
Thrust forth an exile, and proclaimed a slave;
So should I fare at home. And here in Troy
My foes are many and my comforts few.
All these things are my portion through thy death.
Woe's me, my heart! how shall I bear to draw thee,
O thou ill-starr'd! from this discoloured blade,
Thy self-shown slayer? Didst thou then perceive
Dead Hector was at length to be thine end?--
I pray you all, consider these two men.
Hector, whose gift from Aias was a girdle,
Tight-braced therewith to the car's rim, was dragged
And scarified till he breathed forth his life.
And Aias with this present from his foe
Finds through such means his death-fall and his doom.
Say then what cruel workman forged the gifts,
But Fury this sharp sword, Hell that bright band?
In this, and all things human, I maintain,
Gods are the artificers. My thought is said.
And if there be who cares not for my thought,
Let him hold fast his faith and leave me mine.

CH. Spare longer speech, and think how to secure
Thy brother's burial, and what plea will serve;
Since one comes here hath no good will to us
And like a villain haply comes in scorn.

TEU. What man of all the host hath caught thine eye?

CH. The cause for whom we sailed, the Spartan King.

TEU. Yes; I discern him, now he moves more near.

_Enter_ MENELAUS.

MENELAUS. Fellow, give o'er. Cease tending yon dead man!
Obey my voice, and leave him where he lies.

TEU. Thy potent cause for spending so much breath?

MEN. My will, and his whose word is sovereign here.

TEU. May we not know the reasons of your will?

MEN. Because he, whom we trusted to have brought
To lend us loyal help with heart and hand,
Proved in the trial a worse than Phrygian foe;
Who lay in wait for all the host by night,
And sallied forth in arms to shed our blood;
That, had not one in Heaven foiled this attempt,
Our lot had been to lie as he doth here
Dead and undone for ever, while he lived
And flourished. Heaven hath turned this turbulence
To fall instead upon the harmless flock.
Wherefore no strength of man shall once avail
To encase his body with a seemly tomb,
But outcast on the wide and watery sand,
He'll feed the birds that batten on the shore.
Nor let thy towering spirit therefore rise
In threatening wrath. Wilt thou or not, our hand
Shall rule him dead, howe'er he braved us living,
And that by force; for never would he yield,
Even while he lived, to words from me. And yet
It shows base metal when the subject-wight
Deigns not to hearken to the chief in power.
Since without settled awe, neither in states
Can laws have rightful sway, nor can a host
Be governed with due wisdom, if no fear
Or wholesome shame be there to shield its safety.
And though a man wax great in thews and bulk,
Let him be warned: a trifling harm may ruin him.
Whoever knows respect and honour both
Stands free from risk of dark vicissitude.
But whereso pride and licence have their fling,
Be sure that state will one day lose her course
And founder in the abysm. Let fear have place
Still where it ought, say I, nor let men think
To do their pleasure and not bide the pain.
That wheel comes surely round. Once Aias flamed
With insolent fierceness. Now I mount in pride,
And loudly bid thee bury him not, lest burying
Thy brother thou be burrowing thine own grave.

CH. Menelaues, make not thy philosophy
A platform whence to insult the valiant dead.

TEU. I nevermore will marvel, sirs, when one
Of humblest parentage is prone to sin,
Since those reputed men of noble strain
Stoop to such phrase of prating frowardness.
Come, tell it o'er again,--said you ye brought
My brother bound to aid you with his power?
Sailed he not forth of his own sovereign will?
Where is thy voucher of command o'er him?
Where of thy right o'er those that followed him?
Sparta, not we, shall buckle to thy sway.
'Twas written nowhere in the bond of rule
That thou shouldst check him rather than he thee.
Thou sailedst under orders, not in charge
Of all, much less of Aias. Then pursue
Thy limited direction, and chastise,
In haughty phrase, the men who fear thy nod.
But I will bury Aias, whether thou
Or the other general give consent or no.
'Tis not for me to tremble at your word.
Not to reclaim thy wife, like those poor souls
Thou flll'st with labour, issued this man forth,
But caring for his oath, and not for thee,
Or any other nobody. Then come
With heralds all arow, and bring the man
Called king of men with thee! For thy sole noise
I budge not, wert thou twenty times thy name.

CH. The sufferer should not bear a bitter tongue.
Hard words, how just soe'er, will leave their sting.

MEN. Our bowman carries no small pride, I see.

TEU. No mere mechanic's menial craft is mine.

MEN. How wouldst thou vaunt it hadst thou but a shield!

TEU. Unarmed I fear not thee in panoply.

MEN. Redoubted is the wrath lives on thy tongue.

TEU. Whose cause is just hath licence to be proud.

MEN. Just, that my murderer have a peaceful end?

TEU. Thy murderer? Strange, to have been slain and live!

MEN. Yea, through Heaven's mercy. By his will, I am dead.

TEU. If Heaven have saved thee, give the Gods their due.

MEN. Am I the man to spurn at Heaven's command?

TEU. Thou dost, to come and frustrate burial.

MEN. Honour forbids to yield my foe a tomb.

TEU. And Aias was thy foeman? Where and when?

MEN. Hate lived between us; that thou know'st full well.

TEU. For thy proved knavery, coining votes i' the court

MEN. The judges voted. He ne'er lost through me.

TEU. Guilt hiding guile wears often fairest front.

MEN. I know whom pain shall harass for that word.

TEU. Not without giving equal pain, 'tis clear.

MEN. No more, but this. No burial for this man!

TEU. Yea, this much more. He shall have instant burial.

MEN. I have seen ere now a man of doughty tongue
Urge sailors in foul weather to unmoor,
Who, caught in the sea-misery by and by,
Lay voiceless, muffled in his cloak, and suffered
Who would of the sailors over trample him
Even so methinks thy truculent mouth ere long
Shall quench its outcry, when this little cloud
Breaks forth on thee with the full tempest's might.

TEU. I too have seen a man whose windy pride
Poured forth loud insults o'er a neighbour's fall,
Till one whose cause and temper showed like mine
Spake to him in my hearing this plain word:
'Man, do the dead no wrong; but, if thou dost,
Be sure thou shalt have sorrow.' Thus he warned
The infatuate one: ay, one whom I behold,
For all may read my riddle--thou art he.

MEN. I will be gone. 'Twere shame to me, if known,
To chide when I have power to crush by force.

TEU. Off with you, then! 'Twere triple shame in me
To list the vain talk of a blustering fool.           [_Exit_ MENELAUS

LEADER OF CHORUS.
      High the quarrel rears his head!
        Haste thee, Teucer, trebly haste,
      Grave-room for the valiant dead
        Furnish with what speed thou mayst,
      Hollowed deep within the ground,
      Where beneath his mouldering mound
      Aias aye shall be renowned.

_Re-enter_ TECMESSA _with_ EURYSAKES.

TEU. Lo! where the hero's housemate and his child,
Hitting the moment's need, appear at hand,
To tend the burial of the ill fated dead.
Come, child, take thou thy station close beside:
Kneel and embrace the author of thy life,
In solemn suppliant fashion holding forth
This lock of thine own hair, and hers, and mine
With threefold consecration, that if one
Of the army force thee from thy father's corse,
My curse may banish him from holy ground,
Far from his home, unburied, and cut off
From all his race, even as I cut this curl.
There, hold him, child, and guard him; let no hand
Stir thee, but lean to the calm breast and cling.
(_To_ CHORUS) And ye, be not like women in this scene,
Nor let your manhoods falter; stand true men
To this defence, till I return prepared,
Though all cry No, to give him burial.                         [_Exit_

CHORUS.
When shall the tale of wandering years be done?                    I 1
When shall arise our exile's latest sun?
Oh, where shall end the incessant woe
Of troublous spear-encounter with the foe,
    Through this vast Trojan plain,
Of Grecian arms the lamentable stain?

Would he had gone to inhabit the wide sky,                         I 2
Or that dark home of death where millions lie,
Who taught our Grecian world the way
To use vile swords and knit the dense array!
    His toil gave birth to toil
In endless line. He made mankind his spoil.

His tyrant will hath forced me to forgo                           II 1
The garland, and the goblet's bounteous flow:
    Yea, and the flute's dear noise,
    And night's more tranquil joys;
    Ay me! nor only these,
    The fruits of golden ease,
But Love, but Love--O crowning sorrow!--
Hath ceased for me. I may not borrow
  Sweet thoughts from him to smooth my dreary bed,
  Where dank night-dews fall ever on my head,
Lest once I might forget the sadness of the morrow.

Even here in Troy, Aias was erst my rock,                         II 2
From darkling fears and 'mid the battle-shock
    To screen me with huge might:
    Now he is lost in night
    And horror. Where again
    Shall gladness heal my pain?
O were I where the waters hoary,
Round Sunium's pine-clad promontory,
  Plash underneath the flowery upland height.
  Then holiest Athens soon would come in sight,
And to Athena's self I might declare my story.

_Enter_ TEUCER.

TEU. My steps were hastened, brethren, when I saw
Great Agamemnon hitherward afoot.
He means to talk perversely, I can tell.

_Enter_ AGAMEMNON.

AG. And so I hear thou'lt stretch thy mouth agape
With big bold words against us undismayed--
Thou, the she-captive's offspring! High would scale
Thy voice, and pert would be thy strutting gait,
Were but thy mother noble; since, being naught,
So stiff thou stand'st for him who is nothing now,
And swear'st we came not as commanders here
Of all the Achaean navy, nor of thee;
But Aias sailed, thou say'st, with absolute right.
Must we endure detraction from a slave?
What was the man thou noisest here so proudly?
Have I not set my foot as firm and far?
Or stood his valour unaccompanied
In all this host? High cause have we to rue
That prize-encounter for Pelides' arms,
Seeing Teucer's sentence stamps our knavery
For all to know it; and nought will serve but ye,
Being vanquished, kick at the award that passed
By voice of the majority in the court,
And either pelt us with rude calumnies,
Or stab at us, ye laggards! with base guile.
Howbeit, these ways will never help to build
The wholesome order of established law,
If men shall hustle victors from their right,
And mix the hindmost rabble with the van.
That craves repression. Not by bulky size,
Or shoulders' breadth, the perfect man is known;
But wisdom gives chief power in all the world.
The ox hath a huge broadside, yet is held
Right in the furrow by a slender goad;
Which remedy, I perceive, will pass ere long
To visit thee, unless thy wisdom grow;
Who hast uttered forth such daring insolence
For the pale shadow of a vanished man.
Learn modestly to know thy place and birth,
And bring with thee some freeborn advocate
To plead thy cause before us in thy room.
I understand not in the barbarous tongue,
And all thy talk sounds nonsense to mine ear.

CH. Would ye might both have sense to curb your ire!
No better hope for either can I frame.

TEU. Fie! How doth gratitude when men are dead
Prove renegade and swiftly pass away!
This Agamemnon hath no slightest word
Of kind remembrance any more for thee,
Aias, who oftentimes for his behoof
Hast jeoparded thy life in labour of war.
Now all is clean forgotten and out of mind.
Thou who hast multiplied words void of sense,
Hast thou no faintest memory of the time
When who but Aias came and rescued you
Already locked within the toils,--all lost,
The rout began: when close abaft the ships
The torches flared, and o'er the bootless trench
Hector was bounding high to board our fleet?
Who stayed that onset? Was not Aias he?
Whom thou deny'st to have once set foot by thine.
Find ye no merit there? And once again
When he met Hector singly, man to man,
Not by your bidding, but the lottery's choice,
His lot, that skulked not low adown i' the heap,
A moist earth-clod, but sure to spring in air,
And first to clear the plumy helmet's brim.
Yes, Aias was the man, and I too there
Kept rank, the 'barbarous mother's servile son.'
I pity thee the blindness of that word.
Who was thy father's father? A barbarian,
Pelops, the Phrygian, if you trace him far!
And what was Atreus, thine own father? One
Who served his brother with the abominable
Dire feast of his own flesh. And thou thyself
Cam'st from a Cretan mother, whom her sire
Caught with a man who had no right in her
And gave dumb fishes the polluted prey.
Such was thy race. What is the race thou spurnest?
My father, Telamon, of all the host
Being foremost proved in valour, took as prize
My mother for his mate: a princess she,
Born of Laomedon; Alcmena's son
Gave her to grace him--a triumphant meed.
Thus royally descended and thus brave,
Shall I renounce the brother of my blood,
Or suffer thee to thrust him in his woes
Far from all burial, shameless that thou art?
Be sure that, if ye cast him forth, ye'll cast
Three bodies more beside him in one spot;
For nobler should I find it here to die
In open quarrel for my kinsman's weal,
Than for thy wife--or Menelaues', was 't?
Consider then, not my case, but your own.
For if you harm me you will wish some day
To have been a coward rather than dare me.

CH. Hail, Lord Odysseus! thou art come in time
Not to begin, but help to end, a fray.

_Enter_ ODYSSEUS.

OD. What quarrel, sirs? I well perceived from far
The kings high-voicing o'er the valiant dead.

AG. Yea, Lord Odysseus, for our ears are full
Of this man's violent heart-offending talk.

OD. What words have passed? I cannot blame the man
Who meets foul speech with bitterness of tongue.

AG. My speech was bitter, for his deeds were foul.

OD. What deed of his could harm thy sovereign head?

AG. He boldly says this corse shall not be left
Unburied, but he'll bury it in our spite.

OD. May I then speak true counsel to my friend,
And pull with thee in policy as of yore?

AG. Speak. I were else a madman; for no friend
Of all the Argeians do I count thy peer.

OD. Then hear me in Heaven's name! Be not so hard
Thus without ruth tombless to cast him forth;
Nor be so vanquished by a vehement will,
That to thy hate even Justice' self must bow.
I, too, had him for my worst enemy,
Since I gained mastery o'er Pelides' arms.
But though he used me so, I ne'er will grudge
For his proud scorn to yield him thus much honour,
That, save Achilles' self, I have not seen
So noble an Argive on the fields of Troy.
Then 'twere not just in thee to slight him now;
Nor would thy treatment wound him, but confound
The laws of Heaven. No hatred should have scope
To offend the noble spirits of the dead.

AG. Wilt thou thus fight against me on his side?

OD. Yea, though I hated him, while hate was comely.

AG. Why, thou shouldst trample him the more, being dead.

OD. Rejoice not, King, in feats that soil thy fame!

AG. 'Tis hard for power to observe each pious rule.

OD. Not hard to grace the good words of a friend.

AG. The 'noble spirit' should hearken to command.

OD. No more! 'Tis conquest to be ruled by love.

AG. Remember what he was thou gracest so.

OD. A noisome enemy; but his life was great.

AG. And wilt thou honour such a pestilent corse?

OD. Hatred gives way to magnanimity.

AG. With addle-pated fools.

OD.                         Full many are found
Friends for an hour, yet bitter in the end.

AG. And wouldst thou have us gentle to such friends?

OD. I would not praise ungentleness in aught.

AG. We shall be known for weaklings through thy counsel.

OD. Not so, but righteous in all Grecian eyes.

AG. Thou bidst me then let bury this dead man?

OD. I urge thee to the course myself shall follow.

AG. Ay, every man for his own line! That holds.

OD. Why not for my own line? What else were natural?

AG. 'Twill be thy doing then, ne'er owned by me.

OD. Own it or not, the kindness is the same.

AG. Well, for thy sake I'd grant a greater boon;
Then why not this? However, rest assured
That in the grave or out of it, Aias still
Shall have my hatred. Do thou what thou wilt.                  [_Exit_

CH. Whoso would sneer at thy philosophy,
While such thy ways, Odysseus, were a fool.

OD. And now let Teucer know that from this hour
I am more his friend than I was once his foe,
And fain would help him in this burial-rite
And service to his brother, nor would fail
In aught that mortals owe their noblest dead.

TEU. Odysseus, best of men, thine every word
Hath my heart's praise, and my worst thought of thee
Is foiled by thy staunch kindness to the man
Who was thy rancorous foe. Thou wast not keen
To insult in present of his corse, like these,
The insensate general and his brother-king,
Who came with proud intent to cast him forth
Foully debarred from lawful obsequy.
Wherefore may he who rules in yon wide heaven,
And the unforgetting Fury-spirit, and she,
Justice, who crowns the right, so ruin them
With cruellest destruction, even as they
Thought ruthlessly to rob him of his tomb!
For thee, revered Laertes' lineal seed,
I fear to admit thy hand unto this rite,
Lest we offend the spirit that is gone.
But for the rest, I hail thy proffered aid;
And bring whom else thou wilt, I'll ne'er resent it.
This work shall be my single care; but thou,
Be sure I love thee for thy generous heart.

OD. I had gladly done it; but, since thou declinest,
I bow to thy decision, and depart.                             [_Exit_

TEU.  Speed we, for the hour grows late:
        Some to scoop his earthy cell,
      Others by the cauldron wait,
        Plenished from the purest well.
      Hoist it, comrades, here at hand,
      High upon the three-foot stand!
      Let the cleansing waters flow;
      Brightly flame the fire below!
      Others in a stalwart throng
      From his chamber bear along
      All the arms he wont to wield
      Save alone the mantling shield.
      Thou with me thy strength employ,
      Lifting this thy father, boy;
      Hold his frame with tender heed--
      Still the gashed veins darkly bleed.
      Who professes here to love him?
      Ply your busy cares above him,
      Come and labour for the man,
      Nobler none since time began,
      Aias, while his life-blood ran.

LEADER OF CH. Oft we know not till we see.
      Weak is human prophecy.
      Judge not, till the hour have taught thee
      What the destinies have brought thee.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                             KING OEDIPUS

                             THE PERSONS

OEDIPUS, _King of Thebes._
_Priest of Zeus._
CREON, _brother of Jocasta._
CHORUS _of Theban Elders._
TIRESIAS, _the Blind Prophet._
JOCASTA, _the Queen, sister to Creon._
_A Corinthian Shepherd._
_A Theban Shepherd._
_Messenger_

The following also appear, but do not speak:

_A Train of Suppliants._
_The children_ ANTIGONE _and_ ISMENE.

SCENE. Before the Royal Palace in the Cadmean citadel of Thebes.

Laius, the descendant of Cadmus, and king of Thebes (or Thebe), had
been told by an oracle that if a son were born to him by his wife
Jocasta the boy would be his father's death.

Under such auspices, Oedipus was born, and to elude the prophecy was
exposed by his parents on Mount Cithaeron. But he was saved by a
compassionate shepherd, and became the adopted son of Polybus, king of
Corinth. When he grew up he was troubled by a rumour that he was not
his father's son. He went to consult the oracle of Apollo at Delphi,
and was told--not of his origin but of his destiny--that he should be
guilty of parricide and incest.

He was too horror-stricken to return to Corinth, and as he travelled
the other way, he met Laius going from Thebes to Delphi. The
travellers quarrelled and the son killed his father, but knew not whom
he had slain. He went onward till he came near Thebes, where the
Sphinx was making havoc of the noblest citizens, devouring all who
failed to solve her riddle. But Oedipus succeeded and overcame her,
and, as Laius did not return, was rewarded with the regal sceptre,--
and with the hand of the queen.

He reigned nobly and prosperously, and lived happily with Jocasta, by
whom he had four children.

But after some years a plague descended on the people, and Apollo, on
being inquired of, answered that it was for Laius' death. The act of
regicide must be avenged. Oedipus undertakes the task of discovering
the murderer,--and in the same act discovers his own birth, and the
fulfilment of both the former prophecies.

Jocasta hangs herself, and Oedipus in his despair puts out his eyes.

                             KING OEDIPUS

OEDIPUS--Priest of Zeus
(_with the_ Train of Suppliants _grouped before an altar_).

OEDIPUS. Nurslings of Cadmus, children of my care,
Why press ye now to kneel before my gate
With sacred branches in those suppliant hands,
While o'er your city clouds of incense rise
And sounds of praise, mingling with sounds of woe?
  I would not learn of your estate, my sons,
Through others, wherefore I myself am come,
Your Oedipus,--a name well known to men.
Speak, aged friend, whose look proclaims thee meet
To be their spokesman--What desire, what fear
Hath brought you? Doubt not of my earnest will
To lend all succour. Hard would be the heart
That looked unmoved on such a kneeling throng.

PRIEST. Great ruler of my country, thou beholdest
The different ages of our flock who here
Are gathered round thine altar,--some, whose wing
Hath not yet ventured far from home, and some
Burdened with many years, priests of the Gods,
Myself the arch priest of Zeus, and these fresh youths,
A chosen few. Others there are who crowd
The holy agora and the temples twain
Of Pallas, and Ismenus' hallowed fires,
A suppliant host. For, as thyself perceivest,
Our city is tempest tost, and all too weak
To lift above the waves her weary prow
That plunges in a rude and ravenous sea.
Earth's buds are nipped, withering the germs within,
Our cattle lose their increase, and our wives
Have fruitless travail; and that scourge from Heaven,
The fiery Pestilence abhorred of men,
Descending on our people with dire stroke
Lays waste the Home of Cadmus, while dark Death
Wins ample tribute of laments and groans.
  We kneel, then, at thy hearth; not likening thee
Unto the gods, I nor these children here,
But of men counting thee the first in might
Whether to cope with earthly casualty
Or visiting of more than earthly Power.
Thou, in thy coming to this Theban land,
Didst take away the hateful tax we paid
To that stern songstress[1],--aided not by us
With hint nor counsel, but, as all believe,
Gifted from heaven with life-restoring thought.
Now too, great Oedipus of matchless fame,
We all uplift our suppliant looks to thee,
To find some help for us, whether from man,
Or through the prompting of a voice Divine.
Experienced counsel, we have seen and know,
Hath ever prosperous issue. Thou, then, come,
Noblest of mortals, give our city rest
From sorrow! come, take heed! seeing this our land
Now calls thee Saviour for thy former zeal;
And 'twere not well to leave this memory
Of thy great reign among Cadmean men,
'He raised us up, only again to fall.'
Let the salvation thou hast wrought for us
Be flawless and assured! As once erewhile
Thy lucky star gave us prosperity,
Be the same man to-day. Wouldst thou be king
In power, as in command, 'tis greater far
To rule a people than a wilderness.
Since nought avails or city or buttressed wall
Or gallant vessel, if unmanned and void.

OED. Ye touch me to the core. Full well I know
Your trouble and your desire. Think not, my sons,
I have no feeling of your misery!
Yet none of you hath heaviness like mine.
Your grief is held within the single breast
Of each man severally. My burdened heart
Mourns for myself, for Thebe, and for you.
Your coming hath not roused me from repose:
I have watched, and bitterly have wept; my mind
Hath travelled many a labyrinth of thought.
And now I have tried in act the only plan
Long meditation showed me. I have sent
The brother of my queen, Menoeceus' son,
Creon, to learn, in Phoebus' Delphian Hall,
What word or deed of mine may save this city.
And when I count the time, I am full of pain
To guess his speed; for he is absent long,
Beyond the limit of expectancy.
But when he shall appear, base then were I
In aught to disobey the voice of Heaven.

PR. Lo, in good time, crowning thy gracious word,
'Tis told me by these youths, Creon draws near.

OED. Apollo! may his coming be as blest
With saving fortune, as his looks are bright.

PR. Sure he brings joyful news; else had he ne'er
Worn that full wreath of thickly-berried bay.

OED. We have not long to doubt. He can hear now.

_Enter_ CREON.

Son of Menoeceus, brother of my queen,
What answer from Apollo dost thou bring?

CREON. Good; for my message is that even our woes,
When brought to their right issue, shall be well.

OED. What saith the oracle? Thy words so far
Neither embolden nor dishearten me.

CR. Say, must I tell it with these standing by,
Or go within? I am ready either way.

OED. Speak forth to all. The burden of their grief
Weighs more on me than my particular fear.

CE. My lips shall utter what the God hath said.
Sovereign Apollo clearly bids us drive
Forth from this region an accursed thing
(For such is fostered in the land and stains
Our sacred clime), nor cherish it past cure.

OED. What is the fault, and how to be redressed?

CR. By exile, or by purging blood with blood.
Since blood it is that shakes us with this storm.

OED. Whose murder doth Apollo thus reveal?

CR. My gracious lord, before thy prosperous reign
King Laius was the leader of our land.

OED. Though I ne'er saw him, I have heard, and know.

CR. Phoebus commands us now to punish home,
Whoe'er they are, the authors of his death.

OED. But they, where are they? Where shall now be read
The fading record of this ancient guilt?

CR He saith, 'tis in this land. And what is sought
Is found, while things uncared for glide away.

OED. But where did Laius meet this violent end?
At home, afield, or on some foreign soil?

CR. He had left us, as he said, to visit Delphi;
But nevermore returned since he set forth.

OED. And was there none, no fellow traveller,
To see, and tell the tale, and help our search?

CR. No, they were slain; save one, who, flying in fear,
Had nought to tell us but one only thing.

OED. What was that thing? A little door of hope,
Once opened, may discover much to view.

CR. A random troop of robbers, meeting him,
Outnumbered and o'erpowered him. So 'twas told.

OED. What robber would have ventured such a deed,
If unsolicited with bribes from hence?

CR. We thought of that. But Laius being dead,
We found no helper in our miseries.

OED. When majesty was fallen, what misery
Could hinder you from searching out the truth?

CR. A present trouble had engrossed our care.
The riddling Sphinx compelled us to observe
The moment's grief, neglecting things unknown.

OED. But I will track this evil to the spring
And clear it to the day. Most worthily
Doth great Apollo, worthily dost thou
Prompt this new care for the unthought of dead.
And me too ye shall find a just ally,
Succouring the cause of Phoebus and the land.
Since, in dispelling this dark cloud, I serve
No indirect or distant claim on me,
But mine own life, for he that slew the king
May one day turn his guilty hand 'gainst me
With equal rage. In righting Laius, then,
I forward mine own cause.--Now, children, rise
From the altar-steps, and lift your suppliant boughs,
And let some other summon to this place
All Cadmus' people, and assure them, I
Will answer every need. This day shall see us
Blest with glad fortune through God's help, or fallen.

PR. Rise then, my children. Even for this we came
Which our good lord hath promised of himself.
Only may Phoebus, who hath sent this word,
With healing power descend, and stay the plague.   [_Exeunt severally_

CHORUS (_entering_).
Kind voice of Heaven, soft-breathing from the height               I 1
Of Pytho's opulent home to Thebe bright,
        What wilt thou bring to day?
        Ah, Delian Healer, say!
My heart hangs on thy word with trembling awe:
        What new giv'n law,
Or what returning in Time's circling round
Wilt thou unfold? Tell us, immortal sound,
Daughter of golden Hope, tell us, we pray, we pray!

First, child of Zeus, Pallas, to thee appealing,                   I 2
Then to sweet Artemis, thy sister, kneeling,
        Who with benignant hand
        Still guards our sacred land,
Throned o'er the circling mart that hears her praise,
        And thou, whose rays
Pierce evil from afar, ho! come and save,
Ye mighty three! if e'er before ye drave
The threatening fire of woe from Thebe, come to day!

  For ah! the griefs that on me weigh                             II 1
  Are numberless; weak are my helpers all,
  And thought finds not a sword to fray
  This hated pestilence from hearth or hall.
        Earth's blossoms blasted fall:
        Nor can our women rise
        From childbed after pangs and cries;
        But flocking more and more
        Toward the western shore,
Soul after soul is known to wing her flight,
Swifter than quenchless flame, to the far realm of Night.

      So deaths innumerable abound.                               II 2
  My city's sons unpitied lie around
  Over the plague-encumbered ground
  And wives and matrons old on every hand
        Along the altar-strand
        Groaning in saddest grief
        Pour supplication for relief.
        Loud hymns are sounding clear
        With wailing voices near.
Then, golden daughter of the heavenly sire,
Send bright-eyed Succour forth to drive away this fire.

            And swiftly speed afar,                              III 1
            Windborne on backward car,
      The viewless fiend who scares me with wild cries,
            To oarless Thracian tide,
            Of ocean-chambers wide,
      About the bed where Amphitrite lies.
Day blights what night hath spared. O thou whose hand
Wields lightning, blast him with thy thundrous brand.

            Shower from the golden string                        III 2
            Thine arrows Lycian King!
      O Phoebus, let thy fiery lances fly
            Resistless, as they rove
            Through Xanthus' mountain-grove!
      O Thoeban Bacchus of the lustrous eye,
With torch and trooping Maenads and bright crown
Blaze on thee god whom all in Heaven disown.
                         [OEDIPUS _has entered during the Choral song_

OED. Your prayers are answered. Succour and relief
Are yours, if ye will heed my voice and yield
What help the plague requires. Hear it from me,
Who am hitherto a stranger to the tale,
As to the crime. Being nought concerned therewith,
I could not of myself divine the truth.
But now, as one adopted to your state,
To all of you Cadmeans I speak this:
Whoe'er among you knoweth the murderer
Of Laius, son of royal Labdacus,
Let him declare the deed in full to me.
First, if the man himself be touched with fear,
Let him depart, carrying the guilt away;
No harm shall follow him:--he shall go free.
Or if there be who knows another here,
Come from some other country, to have wrought
This murder, let him speak. Reward from me
And store of kind remembrance shall be his.
But if ye are silent, and one present here
Who might have uttered this, shall hold his peace,
As fearing for himself, or for his friend,
What then shall be performed, hear me proclaim.
I here prohibit all within this realm
Whereof I wield the sceptre and sole sway,
To admit the murderer, whosoe'er he be,
Within their houses, or to speak with him,
Or share with him in vow or sacrifice
Or lustral rite. All men shall thrust him forth,
Our dark pollution, so to me revealed
By this day's oracle from Pytho's cell.
  So firm is mine allegiance to the God
And your dead sovereign in this holy war.
Now on the man of blood, whether he lurk
In lonely guilt, or with a numerous band,
I here pronounce this curse:--Let his crushed life
Wither forlorn in hopeless misery.
Next, I pray Heaven, should he or they be housed
With mine own knowledge in my home, that I
May suffer all I imprecate on them.
Last, I enjoin each here to lend his aid
For my sake, and the God's, and for your land
Reft of her increase and renounced by Heaven.
It was not right, when your good king had fallen,
Although the oracle were silent still,
To leave this inquisition unperformed.
Long since ye should have purged the crime. But now
I, to whom fortune hath transferred his crown,
And given his queen in marriage,--yea, moreover,
His seed and mine had been one family
Had not misfortune trampled on his head
Cutting him off from fair posterity,--
All this being so, I will maintain his cause
As if my father's, racking means and might
To apprehend the author of the death
Of Laius, son to Labdacus, and heir
To Polydorus and to Cadmus old,
And proud Agenor of the eldest time.
  Once more, to all who disobey in this
May Heaven deny the produce of the ground
And offspring from their wives, and may they pine
With plagues more horrible than this to-day.
But for the rest of you Cadmean men,
Who now embrace my word, may Righteousness,
Strong to defend, and all the Gods for aye
Watch over you for blessing in your land.

LEADER OF CH. Under the shadow of thy curse, my lord,
I will speak. I slew him not, nor can I show
The man who slew. Phoebus, who gave the word,
Should name the guilty one.

OED.                        Thy thought is just,
But man may not compel the Gods.

CH.                              Again,
That failing, I perceive a second way.

OED. Were there a third, spare not to speak it forth.

CH. I know of one alone whose kingly mind
Sees all King Phoebus sees--Tiresias,--he
Infallibly could guide us in this quest.

OED. That doth not count among my deeds undone.
By Creon's counsel I have sent twice o'er
To fetch him, and I muse at his delay.

CH. The rumour that remains is old and dim.

OED. What rumour? Let no tale be left untried.

CH. 'Twas said he perished by some wandering band.

OED. But the one witness is removed from ken.

CH. Well, if the man be capable of fear,
He'll not remain when he hath heard thy curse.

OED. Words have no terror for the soul that dares
Such doings.

CH.          Yet lives one who shall convict him.
For look where now they lead the holy seer,
Whom sacred Truth inspires alone of men.

_Enter_ TIRESIAS.

OED. O thou whose universal thought commands
All knowledge and all mysteries, in Heaven
And on the earth beneath, thy mind perceives,
Tiresias, though thine outward eye be dark,
What plague is wasting Thebe, who in thee,
Great Sir, finds her one saviour, her sole guide.
Phoebus (albeit the messengers perchance
Have told thee this) upon our sending sent
This answer back, that no release might come
From this disaster, till we sought and found
And slew the murderers of king Laius,
Or drave them exiles from our land. Thou, then,
Withhold not any word of augury
Or other divination which thou knowest,
But rescue Thebe, and thyself, and me,
And purge the stain that issues from the dead.
On thee we lean: and 'tis a noble thing
To use what power one hath in doing good.

TIRESIAS. Ah! terrible is knowledge to the man
Whom knowledge profits not. This well I knew,
But had forgotten. Else I ne'er had come.

OED. Why dost thou bring a mind so full of gloom?

TI. Let me go home. Thy part and mine to-day
Will best be borne, if thou obey me in that.

OED. Disloyal and ungrateful! to deprive
The state that reared thee of thine utterance now.

TI. Thy speech, I see, is foiling thine intent;
And I would shield me from the like mishap. (_Going._)

OED. Nay, if thou knowest, turn thee not away:
All here with suppliant hands importune thee.

TI. Yea, for ye all are blind. Never will I
Reveal my woe;--mine, that I say not, thine.

OED. So, then, thou hast the knowledge of the crime
And wilt not tell, but rather wouldst betray
This people, and destroy thy fatherland!

TI. You press me to no purpose. I'll not pain
Thee, nor myself. Thou wilt hear nought from me.

OED. How? Miscreant! Thy stubbornness would rouse
Wrath in a breast of stone. Wilt thou yet hold
That silent, hard, impenetrable mien?

TI. You censure me for my harsh mood. Your own
Dwells unsuspected with you. Me you blame!

OED. Who can be mild and gentle, when thou speakest
Such words to mock this people?

TI.                             It will come:
Although I bury it in silence here.

OED. Must not the King be told of what will come?

TI. No word from me. At this, an if thou wilt,
Rage to the height of passionate vehemence.

OED. Ay, and my passion shall declare my thought.
'Tis clear to me as daylight, thou hast been
The arch-plotter of this deed; yea, thou hast done
All but the actual blow. Hadst thou thy sight,
I had proclaimed thee the sole murderer.

TI. Ay, say'st thou so?--I charge thee to abide
By thine own ordinance; and from this hour
Speak not to any Theban nor to me.
Thou art the vile polluter of the land.

OED. O void of shame! What wickedness is this?
What power will give thee refuge for such guilt?

TI. The might of truth is scatheless. I am free.

OED. Whence came the truth to thee? Not from thine art.

TI. From thee, whose rage impelled my backward tongue.

OED. Speak it once more, that I may know the drift.

TI. Was it so dark? Or wouldst thou tempt me further?

OED. I cannot say 'twas clear. Speak it again.

TI. I say thou art the murderer whom thou seekest.

OED. Again that baleful word! But thou shalt rue.

TI. Shall I add more, to aggravate thy wrath?

OED. All is but idleness. Say what thou wilt.

TI. I tell thee thou art living unawares
In shameful commerce with thy near'st of blood,
Ignorant of the abyss wherein thou liest.

OED. Think you to triumph in offending still?

TI. If Truth have power.

OED.                     She hath, but not for thee.
Blind as thou art in eyes and ears and mind.

TI. O miserable reproach, which all who now
Behold thee, soon shall thunder forth on thee!

OED. Nursed in unbroken night, thou canst not harm
Or me, or any man who seeth the day.

TI. No, not from me proceeds thy fall; the God,
Who cares for this, is able to perform it.

OED. Came this device from Creon or thyself?

TI. Not Creon: thou art thy sole enemy.

OED. O wealth and sovereign power and high success
Attained through wisdom and admired of men,
What boundless jealousies environ you!
When for this rule, which to my hand the State
Committed unsolicited and free,
Creon, my first of friends, trusted and sure,
Would undermine and hurl me from my throne,
Meanly suborning such a mendicant
Botcher of lies, this crafty wizard rogue,
Blind in his art, and seeing but for gain.
Where are the proofs of thy prophetic power?
How came it, when the minstrel-hound was here,
This folk had no deliverance through thy word?
Her snare could not be loosed by common wit,
But needed divination and deep skill;
No sign whereof proceeded forth from thee
Procured through birds or given by God, till I,
The unknowing traveller, overmastered her,
The stranger Oedipus, not led by birds,
But ravelling out the secret by my thought:
Whom now you study to supplant, and trust
To stand as a supporter of the throne
Of lordly Creon,--To your bitter pain
Thou and the man who plotted this will hunt
Pollution forth[2].--But for thy reverend look
Thou hadst atoned thy trespass on the spot.

CH. Your friends would humbly deprecate the wrath
That sounds both in your speech, my lord, and his.
That is not what we need, but to discern
How best to solve the heavenly oracle.

TI. Though thou art king and lord, I claim no less
Lordly prerogative to answer thee.
Speech is my realm; Apollo rules my life,
Not thou. Nor need I Creon to protect me.
Now, then: my blindness moves thy scorn:--thou hast
Thy sight, and seest not where thou art sunk in evil,
What halls thou dost inhabit, or with whom:
Know'st not from whence thou art--nay, to thy kin,
Buried in death and here above the ground,
Unwittingly art a most grievous foe.
And when thy father's and thy mother's curse
With fearful tread shall drive thee from the land,
On both sides lashing thee,--thine eye so clear
Beholding darkness in that day,--oh, then,
What region will not shudder at thy cry?
What echo in all Cithaeron will be mute,
When thou perceiv'st, what bride-song in thy hall
Wafted thy gallant bark with nattering gale
To anchor,--where? And other store of ill
Thou seest not, that shall show thee as thou art,
Merged with thy children in one horror of birth.
Then rail at noble Creon, and contemn
My sacred utterance! No life on earth
More vilely shall be rooted out, than thine.

OED. Must I endure such words from him? Begone!
Off to thy ruin, and with speed! Away,
And take thy presence from our palace-hall!

TI. Had you not sent for me, I ne'er had come.

OED. I knew not thou wouldst utter folly here,
Else never had I brought thee to my door.

TI. To thee I am foolish, then; but to the pair
Who gave thee life, I was wise.

OED.                            Hold, go not! who?
Who gave me being?

TI.               To-day shall bring to light
Thy birth and thy destruction.

OED.                           Wilt thou still
Speak all in riddles and dark sentences?

TI. Methought thou wert the man to find them out.

OED. Ay! Taunt me with the gift that makes me great.

TI. And yet this luck hath been thy overthrow.

OED. I care not, since I rescued this fair town.

TI. Then I will go. Come, sirrah, guide me forth!

OED. Be it so! For standing here you vex our eye,
But, you being gone, our trouble goes with you.

TI. I go, but I will speak. Why should I fear
Thy frown? Thou ne'er canst ruin me. The word
Wherefore I came, is this: The man you seek
With threatening proclamation of the guilt
Of Laius' blood, that man is here to-day,
An alien sojourner supposed from far,
But by-and-by he shall be certified
A true-born Theban: nor will such event
Bring him great joy; for, blind from having sight
And beggared from high fortune, with a staff
In stranger lands he shall feel forth his way;
Shown living with the children of his loins,
Their brother and their sire, and to the womb
That bare him, husband-son, and, to his father,
Parricide and corrival. Now go in,
Ponder my words; and if thou find them false,
then say my power is naught in prophecy.           [_Exeunt severally_

CHORUS.
Whom hath the voice from Delphi's rocky throne                     I 1
      Loudly declared to have done
Horror unnameable with murdering hand?
      With speed of storm-swift car
      'Tis time he fled afar
With mighty footstep hurrying from the land.
      For, armed with lightning brand,
The son of Zeus assails him with fierce bounds,
Hunting with Death's inevitable hounds.

Late from divine Parnassus' snow-capped height                     I 2
      This utterance sprang to light,
To track by every path the man unknown.
      Through woodland caverns deep
      And o'er the rocky steep
Harbouring in caves he roams the wild alone,
      With none to share his moan.
Shunning that prophet-voice's central sound,
Which ever lives, and haunts him, hovering round.

The reverend Seer hath stirred me with strange awe.               II 1
Gainsay I cannot, nor yet think him true.
I know not how to speak. My fluttering heart
In wild expectancy sees nothing clear.
Things past and future with the present doubt
Are shrouded in one mist. What quarrel lay
'Twixt Cadmus' issue and Corinthus' heir
Was never shown me, from old times till now,
By one on whose sure word I might rely
In running counter to the King's fair fame,
To wreak for Laius that mysterious death.

Zeus and Apollo scan the ways of men                              II 2
With perfect vision. But of mortals here
That soothsayers are more inspired than I
What certain proof is given? A man through wit
May pass another's wisdom in the race.
But never, till I see the word fulfilled,
Will I confirm their clamour 'gainst the King.
In open day the female monster came:
Then perfect witness made his wisdom clear.
Thebe hath tried him and delights in him.
Wherefore my heart shall still believe him good.

_Enter_ CREON.

CR. Citizens, hearing of dire calumny
Denounced on me by Oedipus the King,
I am here to make loud protest. If he think,
In this embroilment of events, one word
Or deed of mine hath wrought him injury,
I am not careful to prolong my life
Beneath such imputation. For it means
No trifling danger, but disastrous harm,
Making my life dishonoured in the state,
And meanly thought of by my friends and you.

CH. Perchance 'twas but the sudden flash of wrath,
Not the deliberate judgement of the soul.

CR. Who durst declare it[3], that Tiresias spake
False prophecies, set on to this by me?

CH. Such things were said, I know not how advised.

CR. And were the eyes and spirit not distraught,
When the tongue uttered this to ruin me?

CH. I cannot say. To what my betters do
I am blind. But see, the King comes forth again.

_Enter_ OEDIPUS.

OED. Insolent, art thou here? Hadst thou the face
To bring thy boldness near my palace-roof,
Proved as thou art to have contrived my death
And laid thy robber hands upon my state?
Tell me, by heaven, had you seen in me
A coward or a fool, when you planned this?--
Deemed you I should be blind to your attempt
Craftily creeping on, or, when perceived,
Not ward it off? Is't not a silly scheme,
To think to compass without troops of friends
Power, that is only won by wealth and men?

CR. Wilt them be counselled? Hear as much in turn
As thou hast spoken, and then thyself be judge.

OED. I know thy tongue, but I am slow to learn
From thee, whom I have found my grievous foe.

CR. First on this very point, hear me declare--

OED. I will not hear that thou art not a villain.

CR. Thine is a shallow judgement, if thou thinkest
Self-will without true thought can bring thee gain.

OED. Thine is a shallow judgement, if thou thinkest
Thou canst abuse thy kinsman and be free.

CR. A rightful sentence. But I fain would learn
What wrong is that you speak of?

OED.                             Tell me this;
Didst thou, or not, urge me to send and bring
The reverend-seeming prophet?

CR.                           Yea, and still
I hold that counsel firm.

OED.                      How long is 't now
Since Laius--

CR.           What? I do not catch your drift.

OED. Vanished in ruin by a dire defeat?

CR. 'Twere long to count the years that come between.

OED. And did this prophet then profess his art?

CR. Wise then as now, nor less in reverence.

OED. Then at that season did he mention me?

CR. Not in my hearing.

OED.                   But, I may presume,
Ye held an inquisition for the dead?

CR. Yes, we inquired, of course: and could not hear.

OED. Why was he dumb, your prophet, in that day?

CR. I cannot answer, for I do not know.

OED. This you can answer, for you know it well.

CR. Say what? I will not gainsay, if I know.

OED. That, but for your advice, he had not dared
To talk of Laius' death as done by me.

CR. You know, that heard him, what he spake. But I
Would ask thee too a question in my turn.

OED. No questioning will fasten blood on me.

CR. Hast thou my sister for thine honoured queen?

OED. The fact is patent, and denial vain.

CR. And shar'st with her dominion of this realm?

OED. All she desires is given her by my will.

CR. Then, am not I third-partner with you twain?

OED. There is your villany in breaking fealty.

CR. Not so, if thou wouldst reason with thyself
As I do. First consider one thing well:
Who would choose rule accompanied with fear
Before safe slumbers with an equal sway?
'Tis not my nature, no, nor any man's,
Who follows wholesome thoughts, to love the place
Of domination rather than the power.
Now, without fear, I have my will from thee;
But were I king, I should do much unwillingly.
How then can I desire to be a king,
When masterdom is mine without annoy?
Delusion hath not gone so far with me
As to crave more than honour joined with gain.
Now all men hail me happy, all embrace me;
All who have need of thee, call in my aid;
For thereupon their fortunes wholly turn.
How should I leave this substance for that show?
No man of sense can harbour thoughts of crime.
Such vain ambition hath no charm for me,
Nor could I bear to lend it countenance.
If you would try me, go and ask again
If I brought Phoebus' answer truly back.
Nay more, should I be found to have devised
Aught in collusion with the seer, destroy me,
Not by one vote, but two, mine own with thine.
But do not on a dim suspicion blame me
Of thy mere will. To darken a good name
Without clear cause is heinous wickedness;
And to cast off a worthy friend I call
No less a folly than to fling away
What most we love, the life within our breast.
The certainty of this will come with time;
For time alone can clear the righteous man.
An hour suffices to make known the villain.

CH. Prudence bids hearken to such words, my lord,
For fear one fall. Swift is not sure in counsel.

OED. When he who hath designs on me is swift
In his advance, I must bethink me swiftly.
Should I wait leisurely, his work hath gained
Achievement, while my plans have missed success.

CR. What would you then? To thrust me from the land?

OED. Nay, death, not exile, is my wish for thee,
When all have seen what envy brings on men.

[CR. You'll ne'er relent nor listen to my plea.][4]

OED. You'll ne'er be governed or repent your guilt.

CR. Because I see thou art blind.

OED.                              Not to my need.

CR. Mine must be thought of too.

OED.                             You are a villain.

CR. How if thy thought be vain?

OED.                            Authority
Must be maintained.

CR.                Not when authority
Declines to evil.

OED.              O my citizens!

CR. I have a part in them no less than you.

LEADER OF CH. Cease, princes. Opportunely I behold
Jocasta coming toward you from the palace.
Her presence may attune your jarring minds.

_Enter_ JOCASTA.

JOCASTA. Unhappy that ye are, why have ye reared
Your wordy rancour 'mid the city's harms?
Have you no shame, to stir up private broils
In such a time as this? Get thee within!  (_To_ OED)
And thou too, Creon! nor enlarge your griefs
To make a mountain out of nothingness.

CR. Sister, thy husband Oedipus declares
One of two horrors he will wreak on me,
Banishment from my native land, or death.

OED. Yea, for I caught him practising, my queen,
Against our person with malignant guile.

CR. May comfort fail me, and a withering curse
Destroy me, if I e'er planned aught of this.

JO. I pray thee, husband, listen to his plea;
Chiefly respecting his appeal to Heaven,
But also me, and these who stand by thee.

CH. 1. Incline to our request                                      I 1
Thy mind and heart, O King!

OED. What would you I should yield unto your prayer?

CH. 2. Respect one ever wise,
Whose oath protects him now.

OED. Know ye what thing ye ask?

CH. 3. I know.

OED.           Then plainly tell.

CH. 4. Thy friend, who is rendered sacred by his oath,
Rob not of honour through obscure surmise.

OED. In asking that, you labour for my death
Or banishment. Of this be well assured.

CH. 5. No, by the Sun I swear,                                    II 1
Vaunt-courier of the host of heaven.
For may I die the last of deaths,
Unblest of God or friend,
If e'er such thought were mine.
But oh! this pining land
Afflicts my sorrow-burdened soul,
To think that to her past and present woe
She must add this, which springs to her from you.

OED. Then let him range, though I must die outright,
Or be thrust forth with violence from the land!
--Not for his voice, but thine, which wrings my heart:
He, wheresoe'er he live, shall have my hate.

CR. You show yourself as sullen when you yield,
As unendurable in your fury's height.
Such natures justly give themselves most pain.

OED. Let me alone, then, and begone!

CR.                                  I go,
Untainted in their sight, though thou art blind.               [_Exit_

CH. 1. Lady, why tarriest thou                                     I 2
To lead thy husband in?

JO. Not till I learn what mischief is befallen.

CH. 2. A dim, unproved debate.
Reproach, though unfounded, stings.

JO. From both?

CH. 3.         From both alike.

JO. How caused?

CH. 4.          Enough for me,
Amply enough it seems, when our poor land
Is vexed already, not to wake what sleeps.

OED. (_to_ LEADER OF CH.).
See where thine honest zeal hath landed thee,
Bating my wrath, and blunting my desire!

CH. 5. My prince, I say it again:                                 II 2
Assure thee, I were lost to sense,
Infatuate, void of wholesome thought,
Could I be tempted now
To loose my faith from thee,
Who, when the land I love
Laboured beneath a wildering load,
Didst speed her forth anew with favouring gale.
Now, too, if but thou may'st, be her good guide.

JO. Let not thy queen be left in ignorance
What cause thou hadst to lift thy wrath so high.

OED. I'll tell thee, lady, for I honour thee
More than these citizens. 'Twas Creon there,
And his inveterate treason against me.

JO. Accuse him, so you make the quarrel plain.

OED. He saith I am the murderer of the King.

JO. Speaks he from hearsay, or as one who knows?

OED. He keeps his own lips free: but hath suborned
A rascal soothsayer to this villany.

JO. Hearken to me, and set your heart at rest
On that you speak of, while I make you learn
No mortal thing is touched by soothsaying.
Of that I'll give thee warrant brief and plain.
Word came to Laius once, I will not say
From Phoebus' self, but from his ministers,
The King should be destroyed by his own son,
If son were born to him from me. What followed?
Laius was slain, by robbers from abroad,
Saith Rumour, in a cross-way! But the child
Lived not three days, ere by my husband's hand
His feet were locked, and he was cast and left
By messengers on the waste mountain wold.
So Phoebus neither brought upon the boy
His father's murder, nor on Laius
The thing he greatly feared, death by his son.
Such issue came of prophesying words.
Therefore regard them not. God can himself
With ease bring forth what for his ends he needs.

OED. What strange emotions overcloud my soul,
Stirred to her depths on hearing this thy tale!

JO. What sudden change is this? What cares oppress thee?

OED. Methought I heard thee say, King Laius
Was at a cross-road overpowered and slain?

JO. So ran the talk that yet is current here.

OED. Where was the scene of this unhappy blow?

JO. Phocis the land is named. The parted ways
Meet in one point from Dauha and from Delphi.

OED. And since the event how much of time hath flown?

JO. 'Twas just ere you appeared with prospering speed
And took the kingdom, that the tidings came.

OED. What are thy purposes against me, Zeus?

JO. Why broods thy mind upon such thoughts, my king?

OED. Nay, ask me not! But tell me first what height
Had Laius, and what grace of manly prime?

JO. Tall, with dark locks just sprinkled o'er with grey:
In shape and bearing much resembling thee.

OED. O heavy fate! How all unknowingly
I laid that dreadful curse on my own head!

JO. How?
I tremble as I gaze on thee, my king!

OED. The fear appals me that the seer can see.
Tell one thing more, to make it doubly clear!

JO. I am lothe to speak, but, when you ask, I will.

OED. Had he scant following, or, as princes use,
Full numbers of a well-appointed train?

JO. There were but five in all: a herald one;
And Laius travelled in the only car.

OED. Woe! woe! 'Tis clear as daylight. Who was he
That brought you this dire message, O my queen?

JO. A home-slave, who alone returned alive.

OED. And is he now at hand within the house?

JO. No, truly. When he came from yonder scene
And found thee king in room of Laius murdered,
He touched my hand, and made his instant prayer
That I would send him to o'erlook the flocks
And rural pastures, so to live as far
As might be from the very thought of Thebes.
I granted his desire. No servant ever
More richly merited such boon than he.

OED. Can he be brought again immediately?

JO. Indeed he can. But why desire it so?

OED. Words have by me been uttered, O my queen,
That give me too much cause to wish him here.

JO. Then come he shall. But I may surely claim
To hear what in thy state goes heavily.

OED. Thou shalt not lose thy rights in such an hour,
When I am harrowed thus with doubt and fear.
To whom more worthy should I tell my grief?
--My father was Corinthian Polybus,
My mother, Dorian Merope.--I lived
A prince among that people, till a chance
Encountered me, worth wonder, but, though strange,
Not worth the anxious thought it waked in me.
For at a feasting once over the wine
One deep in liquor called aloud to me,
'Hail, thou false foundling of a foster-sire!'
That day with pain I held my passion down;
But early on the morrow I came near
And questioned both my parents, who were fierce
In anger at the man who broached this word.
For their part I was satisfied, but still
It galled me, for the rumour would not die.
  Eluding then my parents I made way
To Delphi, where, as touching my desire,
Phoebus denied me; but brake forth instead
With other oracles of misery
And horrible misfortune, how that I
Must know my mother's shame, and cause to appear
A birth intolerable in human view,
And do to death the author of my life.
I fled forth at the word, conjecturing now
Corinthia's region by the stars of heaven,
And wandered, where I never might behold
Those dreadful prophecies fulfilled on me.
So travelling on, I came even to the place
Where, as thou tell'st, the King of Thebe fell.
And, O my wife, I will hide nought from thee.
When I drew near the cross-road of your tale,
A herald, and a man upon a car,
Like your description, there encountered me.
And he who led the car, and he himself
The greybeard, sought to thrust me from the path.
Then in mine angry mood I sharply struck
The driver-man who turned me from the way;
Which when the elder saw, he watched for me
As I passed by, and from the chariot-seat
Smote full upon my head with the fork'd goad;
But got more than he gave; for, by a blow
From this right hand, smit with my staff, he fell
Instantly rolled out of the car supine.
I slew them every one. Now if that stranger
Had aught in common with king Laius,
What wretch on earth was e'er so lost as I?
Whom have the Heavens so followed with their hate?
No house of Theban or of foreigner
Must any more receive me, none henceforth
Must speak to me, but drive me from the door!
I, I have laid this curse on mine own head!
Yea, and this arm that slew him now enfolds
His queen. O cruel stain! Am I not vile?
Polluted utterly! Yes, I must flee,
And, lost to Thebe, nevermore behold
My home, nor tread my country, lest I meet
In marriage mine own mother, and bring low
His head that gave me life and reared my youth,
My father, Polybus. Ah! right were he
Who should declare some god of cruel mood
Had sent this trouble upon my soul! Ye Powers,
Worshipped in holiness, ne'er may I see
That day, but perish from the sight of men,
Ere sins like these be branded on my name!

CH. Thy fear is ours, O king: yet lose not hope,
Till thou hast heard the witness of the deed.

OED. Ay, that is all I still have left of hope,
To bide the coming of the shepherd man.

JO. What eager thought attends his presence here?

OED. I'll tell thee. Should his speech accord with thine,
My life stands clear from this calamity.

JO. What word of mine agreed not with the scene?

OED. You said he spake of robbers in a band
As having slain him. Now if he shall still
Persist in the same number, I am free.
One man and many cannot be the same.
But should he tell of one lone traveller,
Then, unavoidably, this falls on me.

JO. So 'twas given out by him, be sure of that.
He cannot take it back. Not I alone
But all the people heard him speak it so.
And should he swerve in aught from his first tale,
He ne'er can show the murder of the king
Rightly accordant with the oracle.
For Phoebus said expressly he should fall
Through him whom I brought forth. But that poor babe
Ne'er slew his sire, but perished long before.
Wherefore henceforth I will pursue my way
Regardless of all words of prophecy.

OED. Wisely resolved. But still send one to bring
The labourer swain, and be not slack in this.

JO. I will, and promptly. Go we now within!
My whole desire is but to work thy will.                     [_Exeunt_

CHORUS
O may my life be evermore                                          I 1
  Pure in each holy word and deed
  By those eternal laws decreed
That pace the sapphire-paven floor!
Children of Heaven, of Ether born,
No mortal knew their natal morn,
Nor may Oblivion's waters deep
E'er lull their wakeful spirit asleep,
Nor creeping Age o'erpower the mighty God
Who far within them holds his unprofaned abode.

Pride breeds the tyrant: monstrous birth!                          I 2
  Insolent Pride, if idly nursed
  On timeless surfeit, plenty accursed,
Spurning the lowlier tract of Earth
Mounts to her pinnacle,--then falls,
Dashed headlong down sheer mountain walls
To dark Necessity's deep ground,
Where never foothold can be found.
Let wrestlers for my country's glory speed,
God, I thee pray! Be God my helper in all need!

But if one be, whose bold disdain                                  I 2
Walks in a round of vapourings vain
And violent acts, regarding not
The Rule of Right, but with proud thought
Scorning the place where Gods have set their seat,
--Made captive by an Evil Doom,
Shorn of that inauspicious bloom,
Let him be shown the path of lawful gain
And taught in holier ways to guide his feet,
Nor with mad folly strain
His passionate arms to clasp things impious to retain.
Who in such courses shall defend his soul
From storms of thundrous wrath that o'er him roll?
If honour to such lives be given,
What needs our choir to hymn the power of Heaven?

No more to Delphi, central shrine                                 II 2
Of Earth, I'll seek, for light divine,
Nor visit Abae's mystic fane
Nor travel o'er the well-trod plain
Where thousands throng to famed Olympia's town,
Unless, with manifest accord,
The event fulfil the oracular word.
Zeus, Lord of all! if to eternity
Thou would'st confirm thy kingdom's large renown,
Let not their vauntings high
Evade the sovereign look of the everlasting eye!
They make as though the ancient warning slept
By Laius erst with fear and trembling kept;
Apollo's glory groweth pale,
And holiest rites are prone to faint and fail.

_Enter_ JOCASTA.

JO. Princes of Thebes, it came into my thought
To stand before some holy altar-place
With frankincense and garlands. For the king,
Transported by the tempest of his fear,
Runs wild in grief, nor like a man of sense
Reasons of present things from what hath been.
Each tongue o'ermasters him that tells of woe.
Then since my counsels are of no avail,
To thee, for thou art nearest, Lykian God,
I bring my supplication with full hand.
O grant us absolution and relief!
For seeing him, our pilot, so distraught,
Like mariners, we are all amazed with dread.

_Enter the_ CORINTHIAN SHEPHERD.

COR. SH. Are ye the men to tell me where to find
The mansion of the sovereign Oedipus?
Or better, where he may himself be found?

CH. Here is the roof you seek, and he, our lord,
Is there within: and, stranger, thou behold'st
The queenly mother of his royal race.

COR. SH. May she and hers be alway fortunate!
Still may she crown him with the joys of home!

JO. Be thou, too, blest, kind sir! Thy gracious tongue
Deserves no less. But tell me what request
Or what intelligence thou bring'st with thee?

COR. SH. Good tidings for thy house and husband, queen.

JO. What are they? Who hath sent thee to our hall?

COR. SH. From Corinth come I, and will quickly tell
What sure will please you; though perchance 'twill grieve.

JO. What news can move us thus two ways at once?

COR. SH. 'Twas rumoured that the people of the land
Of Corinth would make Oedipus their king.

JO. Is ancient Polybus not still in power?

COR. SH. No. Death confines him in a kingly grave.

JO. Hold there! How say you? Polybus in his grave?

COR. SH. May I die for him if I speak not true!

JO. (_To an attendant_).
Run thou, and tell this quickly to my lord!
Voices of prophecy, where are ye now?
Long time hath Oedipus, a homeless man,
Trembled with fear of slaying Polybus.
Who now lies slain by Fortune, not by him.

_Enter_ OEDIPUS.

OED. Jocasta, my dear queen, why didst thou send
To bring me hither from our palace-hall?

JO. Hear that man's tale, and then consider well
The end of yonder dreadful prophecy.

OED. Who is the man, and what his errand here?

JO. He comes from Corinth, to make known to thee
That Polybus, thy father, is no more.

OED. How, stranger? Let me learn it from thy mouth.

COR. SH. If my first duty be to make this clear,
Know beyond doubt that he is dead and gone.

OED. By illness coming o'er him, or by guile?

COR. SH. Light pressure lays to rest the timeworn frame.

OED. He was subdued by sickness then, poor soul!

COR. SH. By sickness and the burden of his years.

OED. Ah! my Jocasta, who again will heed
The Pythian hearth oracular, and birds
Screaming in air, blind guides! that would have made
My father's death my deed; but he is gone,
Hidden underneath the ground, while I stand hero
Harmless and weaponless:--unless, perchance,
My absence killed him,--so he may have died
Through me. But be that as it may, the grave
That covers Polybus, hath silenced, too,
One voice of prophecy, worth nothing now.

JO. Did I not tell thee so, long since?

OED.                                    Thou didst.
But I was drawn to error by my fear.

JO. Now cast it altogether out of mind.

OED. Must I not fear my mother's marriage-bed?

JO. Why should man fear, seeing his course is ruled
By fortune, and he nothing can foreknow?
'Tis best to live at ease as best one may.
Then fear not thou thy mother's nuptial hour.
Many a man ere now in dreams hath lain
With her who bare him. He hath least annoy
Who with such omens troubleth not his mind.

OED. That word would be well spoken, were not she
Alive that gave me birth. But since she lives,
Though you speak well, yet have I cause for fear.

JO. Your father's burial might enlighten you.

OED. It doth. But I am darkened by a life.

COR. SH. Whose being overshadows thee with fear?

OED. Queen Merope, the consort of your king.

COR. SH. What in her life should make your heart afraid?

OED. A heaven-sent oracle of dreadful sound.

COR. SH. May it be told, or must no stranger know?

OED. Indeed it may. Word came from Phoebus once
That I must know my mother's shame, and shed
With these my hands my own true father's blood.
Wherefore long since my home hath been removed
Far from Corinthos:--not unhappily;
But still 'tis sweet to see a parent's face.

COR. SH. Did fear of this make thee so long an exile?

OED. Of this and parricide, my aged friend.

COR. SH. I came with kind intent--and, dear my lord,
I fain would rid thee from this haunting dread.

OED. Our gratitude should well reward thy love.

COR. SH. Hope of reward from thee in thy return
Was one chief motive of my journey hither.

OED. Return? Not to my parents' dwelling-place!

COR. SH. Son, 'tis too clear, you know not what you do.

OED. Wherefore, kind sir? For Heaven's sake teach me this.

COR. SH. If for these reasons you avoid your home.

OED. The fear torments me, Phoebus may prove true.

COR. SH. Lest from your parents you receive a stain?

OED. That is the life-long torment of my soul.

COR. SH. Will you be certified your fears are groundless?

OED. How groundless, if I am my parents' child?

COR. SH. Because with Polybus thou hast no kin.

OED. Why? Was not he the author of my life?

COR. SH. As much as I am, and no more than I.

OED. How can my father be no more to me
Than who is nothing?

COR. SH.             In begetting thee
Nor I nor he had any part at all.

OED. Why then did he declare me for his son?

COR. SH. Because he took thee once a gift from me.

OED. Was all that love unto a foundling shown?

COR. SH. Heirless affection so inclined his heart.

OED. A gift from you! Your purchase, or your child?[5]

COR. SH. Found in Cithaeron's hollowy wilderness.

OED. What led your travelling footstep to that ground?

COR. SH. The flocks I tended grazed the mountain there.

OED. A shepherd wast thou, and a wandering hind?

COR. SH. Whatever else, my son, thy saviour then.

OED. From what didst thou release me or relieve?

COR. SH. Thine instep bears memorial of the pain.

OED. Ah! what old evil will thy words disclose?

COR. SH. Thy feet were pierced. 'Twas I unfastened them.

OED. So cruel to my tender infancy!

COR. SH. From this thou hast received thy name.

OED.                                By heaven
I pray thee, did my father do this thing,
Or was't my mother?

COR. SH.            That I dare not say.
He should know best who gave thee to my hand.

OED. Another gave me, then? You did not find me?

COR. SH. Another herdsman passed thee on to me.

OED. Can you describe him? Tell us what you know.

COR. SH. Methinks they called him one of Laius' people.

OED. Of Laius once the sovereign of this land?

COR. SH. E'en so. He was a shepherd of his flock.

OED. And is he still alive for me to see?

COR. SH. You Thebans are most likely to know that.

OED. Speak, any one of you in presence here,
Can you make known the swain he tells us of,
In town or country having met with him?
The hour for this discovery is full come.

CH. Methinks it is no other than the peasant
Whom thou didst seek before to see: but this
Could best be told by queen Jocasta there.

OED. We lately sought that one should come, my queen.
Know'st thou, is this of whom he speaks the same?

JO. What matter who? Regard not, nor desire
Even vainly to remember aught he saith.

OED. When I have found such tokens of my birth,
I must disclose it.

JO.                 As you love your life,
By heaven I beg you, search no further here!
The sickness in my bosom is enough.

OED. Nay, never fear! Were I proved thrice a slave
And waif of bondwomen, you still are noble.

JO. Yet hearken, I implore you: do not so.

OED. I cannot hear you. I must know this through.

JO. With clear perception I advise the best.

OED. Thy 'best' is still my torment.

JO.                                  Wretched one,
Never may'st thou discover who thou art!

OED. Will some one go and bring the herdman hither?
Leave her to revel in her lordly line!

JO. O horrible! O lost one! This alone
I speak to thee, and no word more for ever.                    [_Exit_

CH. Oedipus, wherefore is Jocasta gone,
Driven madly by wild grief? I needs must fear
Lest from this silence she make sorrow spring.

OED. Leave her to raise what storm she will. But I
Will persevere to know mine origin,
Though from an humble seed. Her woman's pride
Is shamed, it may be, by my lowliness.
But I, whilst I account myself the son
Of prospering Fortune, ne'er will be disgraced.
For she is my true mother: and the months,
Coheirs with me of the same father, Time,
Have marked my lowness and mine exaltation.
So born, so nurtured, I can fear no change,
That I need shrink to probe this to the root.
                     [OEDIPUS _remains, and gazes towards the country,
                                              while the_ CHORUS _sing_

CHORUS.
      If I wield a prophet's might,                                  1
      Or have sense to search aright,
  Cithaeron, when all night the moon rides high,
      Loud thy praise shall be confessed,
      How upon thy rugged breast,
  Thou, mighty mother, nursed'st tenderly
  Great Oedipus, and gav'st his being room
      Within thy spacious home.
      Yea, we will dance and sing
  Thy glory for thy kindness to our king.
      Phoebus, unto thee we cry,
      Be this pleasing in thine eye!

      Who, dear sovereign, gave thee birth,                          2
      Of the long lived nymphs of earth?
  Say, was she clasped by mountain roving Pan?
      Or beguiled she one sweet hour
      With Apollo in her bower,
  Who loves to trace the field untrod by man?
  Or was the ruler of Cyllene's height
      The author of thy light?
      Or did the Bacchic god,
  Who makes the top of Helicon to nod,
      Take thee for a foundling care
      From his playmates that are there?

_The_ THEBAN SHEPHERD _is seen approaching, guarded._

OED. If haply I, who never saw his face,
Thebans, may guess, methinks I see the hind
Whose coming we have longed for. Both his age,
Agreeing with this other's wintry locks,
Accords with my conjecture, and the garb
Of his conductors is well known to me
As that of mine own people. But methinks       [_to_ LEADER of CHORUS]
Thou hast more perfect knowledge in this case,
Having beheld the herdman in the past.

CH. I know him well, believe me. Laius
Had no more faithful shepherd than this man.

OED. Corinthian friend, I first appeal to you:
Was't he you spake of?

COR. SH.               'Twas the man you see.

OED. Turn thine eyes hither, aged friend, and tell
What I shall ask thee. Wast thou Laius' slave?

THEB. SH. I was, not bought, but bred within the house.

OED. What charge or occupation was thy care?

THEB. SH. Most of my time was spent in shepherding.

OED. And where didst thou inhabit with thy flock?

THEB. SH. 'Twas now Cithaeron, now the neighbouring tract.

OED. And hadst thou there acquaintance of this man?

THEB. SH. Following what service? What is he you mean?

OED. The man you see. Hast thou had dealings with him?

THEB. SH. I cannot bring him all at once to mind.

COR. SH. No marvel, good my lord. But I will soon
Wake to clear knowledge his oblivious sense.
For sure I am he can recall the time,
When he with his two flocks, and I with one
Beside him, grazed Cithaeron's pasture wide
Good six months' space of three successive years,
From spring to rising of Arcturus; then
For the bleak winter season, I drove mine
To their own folds, he his to Laius' stalls.
Do I talk idly, or is this the truth?

THEB. SH. The time is far remote. But all is true.

COR. SH. Well, dost remember having given me then
A child, that I might nurture him for mine?

THEB. SH. What means thy question? Let me know thy drift.

COR. SH. Friend, yonder stands the infant whom we knew.

THEB. SH. Confusion seize thee, and thy evil tongue!

OED. Check not his speech, I pray thee, for thy words
Call more than his for chastisement, old sir.

THEB. SH. O my dread lord, therein do I offend?

OED. Thou wilt not answer him about the child?

THEB. SH. He knows not what he speaks. His end is vain.

OED. So! Thou'lt not tell to please us, but the lash
Will make thee tell.

THEB. SH.            By all that's merciful,
Scourge not this aged frame!

OED.                         Pinion him straight!

THEB. SH. Unhappy! wherefore? what is't you would know?

OED. Gave you this man the child of whom he asks you?

THEB. SH. I gave it him. Would I had died that hour!

OED. Speak rightly, or your wish will soon come true.

THEB. SH. My ruin comes the sooner, if I speak.

OED. This man will balk us with his baffling prate.

THEB. SH. Not so. I said long since, 'I gave the child.'

OED. Whence? Was't your own, or from another's hand?

THEB. SH. 'Twas not mine own; another gave it me.

OED. What Theban gave it, from what home in Thebes?

THEB. SH. O, I implore thee, master, ask no more!

OED. You perish, if I have to ask again.

THEB. SH. The child was of the stock of Laius.

OED. Slave-born, or rightly of the royal line?

THEB. SH. Ah me! Now comes the horror to my tongue!

OED. And to mine ear. But thou shalt tell it me!

THEB. SH. He was given out for Laius' son: but she,
Thy queen, within the palace, best can tell.

OED. How? Did she give it thee?

THEB. SH.                       My lord, she did.

OED. With what commission?

THEB. SH.                  I was to destroy him.

OED. And could a mother's heart be steeled to this?

THEB. SH. With fear of evil prophecies.

OED.                                    What were they?

THEB. SH. 'Twas said the child should be his father's death.

OED. What then possessed thee to give up the child
To this old man?

THEB. SH.        Pity, my sovereign lord!
Supposing he would take him far away
Unto the land whence he was come. But he
Preserved him to great sorrow. For if thou
Art he this man hath said, be well assured
Thou bear'st a heavy doom.

OED.                       O horrible!
Horrible! All fulfilled, as sunlight clear!
Oh may I nevermore behold the day,
Since proved accursed in my parentage,
In those I live with, and in him I slew!                     [_Exeunt_

CHORUS.
      O mortal tribes of men,                                      I 1
      How near to nothingness
I count you while your lives remain!
What man that lives hath more of happiness
Than to seem blest, and, seeming, fade in night?
O Oedipus, in this thine hour of gloom,
Musing on thee and thy relentless doom,
I call none happy who beholds the light.

      Thou through surpassing skill                                I 2
      Didst rise to wealth and power,
When thou the monstrous riddling maid didst kill,
And stoodst forth to my country as a tower
To guard from myriad deaths this glorious town;
Whence thou wert called my king, of faultless fame,
In all the world a far-resounded name,
Unparagoned in honour and renown.

But now to hear of thee, who more distressed?                     II 1
    Who more acquainted with fierce misery,
Assaulted by disasters manifest,
    Than thou in this thy day of agony?
Most noble, most renowned!--Yet one same room
    Heard thy first cry, and in thy prime of power,
Received thee, harbouring both bride and groom,
    And bore it silently till this dread hour.
How could that furrowing of thy father's field
Year after year continue unrevealed?

Time hath detected thine unwitting deed,                          II 2
    Time, who discovers all with eyes of fire,
Accusing thee of living without heed
    In hideous wedlock husband, son, and sire.
Ah would that we, thou child of Laius born,
    Ah would that we had never seen thee nigh!
E'er since we knew thee who thou art, we mourn
    Exceedingly with cries that rend the sky.
For, to tell truth, thou didst restore our life
And gavest our soul sweet respite after strife.

_Enter_ Messenger.

MESS. O ye who in this land have ever held
Chief honour, what an object of dire woe
Awaits your eyes, your ears! What piercing grief
Your hearts must suffer, if as kinsmen should
Ye still regard the house of Laius!
Not Phasis, nor the Danube's rolling flood,
Can ever wash away the stain and purge
This mansion of the horror that it hides.
--And more it soon shall give to light, not now
Unconsciously enacted. Of all ill,
Self-chosen sorrows are the worst to bear.

CH. What hast thou new to add? the weight of grief
From that we know burdens the heart enough.

MESS. Soon spoken and soon heard is the chief sum.
Jocasta's royal head is sunk in death.

CH. The hapless queen! What was the fatal cause?

MESS. Her own determination. You are spared
The worst affliction, not being there to see.
Yet to the height of my poor memory's power
The wretched lady's passion you shall hear.
When she had passed in her hot mood within
The vestibule, straight to the bridal room
She rushes, tearing with both hands her hair.
Then having entered, shutting fast the door,
She called aloud on Laius, long dead,
With anguished memory of that birth of old
Whereby the father fell, leaving his queen
To breed a dreadful brood for his own son.
And loudly o'er the bed she wailed, where she,
In twofold wedlock, hapless, had brought forth
Husband from husband, children from a child.
We could not know the moment of her death,
Which followed soon, for Oedipus with cries
Broke in, and would not let us see her end,
But held our eyes as he careered the hall,
Demanding arms, and where to find his wife,--
No, not his wife, but fatal mother-croft,
Cropped doubly with himself and his own seed.
And in his rage some god directed him
To find her:--'twas no man of us at hand.
Then with a fearful shout, as following
His leader, he assailed the folding-doors;
And battering inward from the mortised bolts
The bending boards, he burst into the room:
Where high suspended we beheld the queen,
In twisted cordage resolutely swung.
He all at once on seeing her, wretched king!
Undid the pendent noose, and on the ground
Lay the ill-starred queen. Oh, then 'twas terrible
To see what followed--for he tore away
The tiring-pins wherewith she was arrayed,
And, lifting, smote his eyeballs to the root,
Saying, Nevermore should they behold the evil
His life inherited from that past time,
But all in dark henceforth should look upon
Features far better not beheld, and fail
To recognize the souls he had longed to know.
Thus crying aloud, not once but oftentimes
He drave the points into his eyes; and soon
The bleeding pupils moistened all his beard,
Nor stinted the dark flood, but all at once
The ruddy hail poured down in plenteous shower.
Thus from two springs, from man and wife together,
Rose the joint evil that is now o'erflowing.
And the old happiness in that past day
Was truly happy, but the present hour
Hath pain, crime, ruin:--whatsoe'er of ill
Mankind have named, not one is absent here.

CH. And finds the sufferer now some pause of woe?

MESS. He bids make wide the portal and display
To all the men of Thebes the man who slew
His father, who unto his mother did
What I dare not repeat, and fain would fling
His body from the land, nor calmly bide
The shock of his own curse on his own hall.
Meanwhile he needs some comfort and some guide,
For such a load of misery who can bear?
Thyself shalt judge: for, lo, the palace-gates
Unfold, and presently thine eyes will see
A hateful sight, yet one thou needs must pity.

_Enter_ OEDIPUS, _blind and unattended._

LEADER OF CH. O horror of the world!
Too great for mortal eye!
More terrible than all I have known of ill!
What fury of wild thought
Came o'er thee? Who in heaven
Hath leapt against thy hapless life
With boundings out of measure fierce and huge?
Ah! wretched one, I cannot look on thee:
No, though I long to search, to ask, to learn.
Thine aspect is too horrible.--I cannot!

OED. Me miserable! Whither am I borne?
Into what region are these wavering sounds
Wafted on aimless wings? O ruthless Fate!
To what a height thy fury hath soared!

CH.                                    Too far
For human sense to follow, or human thought
To endure the horror.

OED.                  O dark cloud, descending                     I 1
Unutterably on me! invincible,
Abhorred, borne onward by too sure a wind.
Woe, woe!
Woe! Yet again I voice it, with such pangs
Both from these piercing wounds I am assailed
And from within through memory of my grief.

CH. Nay, 'tis no marvel if thy matchless woe
Redouble thine affliction and thy moan!

OED. Ah! Friend, thou art still constant! Thou remainest           I 2
To tend me and to care for the blind man.
Alas!
I know thee well, nor fail I to perceive,
Dark though I be, thy kind familiar voice.

CH. How dreadful is thy deed! How couldst thou bear
Thus to put out thine eyes? What Power impelled thee?

OED. Apollo, dear my friends, Apollo brought to pass              II 1
In dreadful wise, this my calamitous woe.
But I,--no being else,--I with this hand destroyed them.
                                               [_Pointing to his eyes_
For why should I have sight,
To whom nought now gave pleasure through the eye?

CH. There speak'st thou truly.

OED.                           What could I see, whom hear
With gladness, whom delight in any more?
Lead me away out of the land with speed!
Be rid of the destroyer, the accursed,
Whom most of all the world the Gods abhor.

CH. O miserable in thy calamity
And not less miserable in thy despair,
Would thou wert still in ignorance of thy birth!

OED. My curse on him who from the cruel bond                      II 2
That held my feet in that high pasture-land
Freed me, and rescued me from murder there,
And saved my life! Vain kindness! Then to have died
Had spared this agony to me and mine.

CH. Ay, would it had been so!

OED. Then had I ne'er
Been proved a parricide, ne'er borne the shame
Of marriage bonds incestuous! But now
I am God abandoned, Son of the unholy,
Rival of him who gave me being. Ah woe!
What sorrow beyond sorrows hath chief place?
That sorrow Oedipus must bear!

LEADER OF CH. I know not how to call thee wise in this:
Thou wert better dead than to be blind and live.

OED. That this last act hath not been for the best
Instruct me not, nor counsel me again.
How, if I kept my sight, could I have looked
In Hades on my father's countenance,
Or mine all hapless mother, when, toward both,
I have done deeds no death can e'er atone?
Ah! but my children were a sight of joy,--
Offspring of such a marriage! were they so?
Never, to eyes of mine! nor town, nor tower,
Nor holy shrines o' the gods, which I myself,
Dowered with the fairest life of Theban men,
Have forfeited, alas, by mine own law,
Declaring men should drive from every door
One marked by Heaven as impious and impure,
Nay worse, of Laius born! And was I then,
By mine own edict branded thus, to look
On Theban faces with unaltered eye?
Nay verily, but had there been a way
To stop the hearing fountain through the ear,
I had not faltered, but had closed and barred
Each gate of this poor body, deaf and blind!
So thought might sweetly dwell at rest from ill
Cithaeron! Why didst thou receive me? Why
Not slay me then and there? So had I not
Told to the world the horror of my birth.
O foster home of Corinth and her king,
How bright the life ye cherished, filming o'er
What foulness far beneath! For I am vile,
And vile were both my parents. So 'tis proved
O cross road in the covert of the glen,
O thicket in the gorge where three ways met,
Bedewed by these my hands with mine own blood
From whence I sprang--have ye forgotten me?
Or doth some memory haunt you of the deeds
I did before you, and went on to do
Worse horrors here? O marriage twice accurst!
That gave me being, and then again sent forth
Fresh saplings springing from the selfsame seed,
To amaze men's eyes and minds with dire confusion
Of father, brother, son, bride, mother, wife,
Murder of parents, and all shames that are!
Silence alone befits such deeds. Then, pray you,
Hide me immediately away from men!
Kill me outright, or fling me far to sea,
Where never ye may look upon me more.
Come, lend your hand unto my misery!
Comply, and fear not, for my load of woe
Is incommunicable to all but me.

CH. With timely presence to fulfil thy need
With act and counsel, Creon comes, who now
Is regent o'er this people in thy room.

OED. Alas, what shall I say to him? What plea
For my defence will hold? My evil part
Toward him in all the past is clearly proved.

_Enter_ CREON.

CR. I come not, Oedipus, to mock thy woes,
Nor to reproach thee for thine evils past.
But ye, (_to_ Chorus) if all respect of mortal eye
Be dead, let awe of the universal flame
Of life's great nourisher, our lord the Sun,
Forbid your holding thus unveiled to view
This huge abomination, which nor Earth
Nor sacred Element, nor light of Heaven
Can once endure. Convey him in with speed.
Religion bids that kindred eyes and ears
Alone should witness kindred crime and woe.

OED. By Heaven, since thou hast reft away my fear,
So nobly meeting my unworthiness,
I pray thee, hear me for thine own behoof.

CR. What boon dost thou desire so earnestly?

OED. Fling me with speediest swiftness from the land,
Where nevermore I may converse with men.

CR. Doubt not I would have done it, but the God
Must be inquired of, ere we act herein.

OED. His sacred utterance was express and clear,
The parricide, the unholy, should be slain.

CR. Ay, so 'twas spoken: but, in such a time,
We needs must be advised more perfectly.

OED. Will ye then ask him for a wretch like me?

CR. Yea. For even thou methinks wilt now believe.

OED. Not only so. But I will charge thee too,
With urgent exhortation, to perform
The funeral rite for her who lies within--
She is thy kinswoman--howe'er thou wilt.
But never let this city of my sires
Claim me for living habitant! There, there
Leave me to range the mountain, where my nurse,
Cithaeron, echoeth with my name,--Cithaeron,
Which both my parents destined for my tomb.
So my true murderers will be my death.
Yet one thing I can tell. Mine end will come
Not by disease nor ordinary chance
I had not lived when at the point to die,
But for some terrible doom. Then let my fate
Run out its full career. But for my children
Thou, Creon, shalt provide. As for my sons,
I pray thee burden not thyself with them.
They ne'er will lack subsistence--they are men.
But my poor maidens, hapless and forlorn,
Who never had a meal apart from mine,
But ever shared my table, yea, for them
Take heedful care, and grant me, though but once.
Yea, I beseech thee, with these hands to feel,
Thou noble heart! the forms I love so well,
And weep with them our common misery.
Oh, if my arms were round them, I might seem
To have them as of old when I could see--
What! Am I fooled once more, or do I hear
My dear ones weeping! And hath Creon sent,
Pitying my sorrows, mine own children to me
Whom most I love? Can this be truth I utter?

CR. Yea, I have done it. For I knew the joy
Thou ever hadst in this, thy comfort now.

OED. Fair be thy fortune, and, for this last deed,
Heaven guide thee on a better course than mine.
Where are ye, O my children? Come, draw near
To these my hands of brother blood with you,
Hands that have made so piteous to your sight
The darkened gaze of his once brilliant eyes,
Who all in blindness, with no thought of ill,
Became your father at that fount of life,
Where he himself took being! Oh! for you
I weep, not seeing you, when I but think
Of all the bitter passages of fate
That must attend you amongst men. For where
Can ye find fellowship, what civic throng
Shall ye resort unto, what festival,
From whence, instead of sight or sound enjoyed,
Ye will not come in tears unto your home?
And when ye reach the marriageable bloom,
My daughters, who will be the man to cast
His lot with yours, receiving for his own
All those reproaches which have marred the name
Of both my parents and your name no less?
What evil is not here? Your father slew
His father, and then eared the mother field
Where he himself was sown, and got you from
The source of his own birth. Such taunts will fly.
And who will marry you? No man, my daughters;
But ye must wither childless and unwed.
Son of Menoeceus, who alone art left
As father to these maidens, for the pair
That gave them birth are utterly undone,
Suffer them not, being your kinswomen,
To wander desolate and poor, nor make
Their lot perforce the counterpart of mine.
But look on them with pity, left in youth
Forlorn of all protection save from thee.
Noble one, seal this promise with thy hand!
--For you, my children, were ye of an age
To ponder speech, I would have counselled you
Full carefully. Now I would have you pray
To dwell where 'tis convenient, that your life
May find more blessing than your father knew.

CR. Thou hast had enough of weeping. Close thee in thy chamber walls.

OED. I must yield, though sore against me.

CR.                                    Yea, for strong occasion calls.

OED. Know'st thou on what terms I yield it?

CR.                                     Tell me, let us hear and know.

OED. That ye send from the country.

CR.                                 God alone can let thee go.

OED. But the Gods long since abhor me.

CR.                                   Thou wilt sooner gain that boon.

OED. Then consent.

CR.                'Tis not my wont to venture promises too soon.

OED. Lead me now within the palace.

CR.                                 Come, but leave thy children.

OED.                                                              Nay!
Tear not these from my embraces!

CR.                              Hope not for perpetual sway:
Since the power thou once obtainedst ruling with unquestioned might
Ebbing from thy life hath vanished ere the falling of the night.

LEADER OF CHORUS.
Dwellers in our native Thebe, fix on Oedipus your eyes.
Who resolved the dark enigma, noblest champion and most wise.
Like a star his envied fortune mounted beaming[6] far and wide:
Now he sinks in seas of anguish, whelmed beneath a raging tide.
Therefore, with the old-world sages, waiting for that final day,
I will call no mortal happy, while he holds his house of clay,
Till without one pang of sorrow, all his hours have passed away.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                               ELECTRA

                             THE PERSONS

An Old Man, _formerly one of the retainers of Agamemnon._
ORESTES, _son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra_.
ELECTRA, _sister of Orestes_.
CHORUS _of Argive Women_.
CHRYSOTHEMIS, _sister of Orestes and Electra_.
CLYTEMNESTRA.
AEGISTHUS.

PYLADES _appears with_ ORESTES, _but does not speak_.

SCENE. Mycenae: before the palace of the Pelopidae.

Agamemnon on his return from Troy, had been murdered by his wife
Clytemnestra and her paramour Aegisthus, who had usurped the Mycenean
throne. Orestes, then a child, had been rescued by his sister Electra,
and sent into Phocis with the one servant who remained faithful to his
old master. The son of Agamemnon now returns, being of a full age,
accompanied by this same attendant and his friend Pylades, with whom
he has already concerted a plan for taking vengeance on his father's
murderers, in obedience to the command of Apollo.

Orestes had been received in Phocis by Strophius, his father's friend.
Another Phocian prince, named Phanoteus, was a friend of Aegisthus.

                               ELECTRA

ORESTES _and the_ Old Man--PYLADES _is present._

OLD MAN. Son of the king who led the Achaean host
Erewhile beleaguering Troy, 'tis thine to day
To see around thee what through many a year
Thy forward spirit hath sighed for. Argolis
Lies here before us, hallowed as the scene
Of Io's wildering pain: yonder, the mart
Named from the wolf slaying God[1], and there, to our left,
Hera's famed temple. For we reach the bourn
Of far renowned Mycenae, rich in gold
And Pelops' fatal roofs before us rise,
Haunted with many horrors, whence my hand,
Thy murdered sire then lying in his gore,
Received thee from thy sister, and removed
Where I have kept thee safe and nourished thee
To this bright manhood thou dost bear, to be
The avenger of thy father's bloody death.
Wherefore, Orestes, and thou, Pylades,
Dearest of friends, though from a foreign soil,
Prepare your enterprise with speed. Dark night
Is vanished with her stars, and day's bright orb
Hath waked the birds of morn into full song.
Now, then, ere foot of man go forth, ye two
Knit counsels. 'Tis no time for shy delay:
The very moment for your act is come.

OR. Kind faithful friend, how well thou mak'st appear
Thy constancy in service to our house!
As some good steed, aged, but nobly bred,
Slacks not his spirit in the day of war,
But points his ears to the fray, even so dost thou
Press on and urge thy master in the van.
Hear, then, our purpose, and if aught thy mind,
Keenly attent, discerns of weak or crude
In this I now set forth, admonish me.
  I, when I visited the Pythian shrine
Oracular, that I might learn whereby
To punish home the murderers of my sire,
Had word from Phoebus which you straight shall hear:
'No shielded host, but thine own craft, O King!
The righteous death-blow to thine arm shall bring.'
Then, since the will of Heaven is so revealed,
Go thou within, when Opportunity
Shall marshal thee the way, and gathering all
Their business, bring us certain cognizance.
Age and long absence are a safe disguise;
They never will suspect thee who thou art.
And let thy tale be that another land,
Phocis, hath sent thee forth, and Phanoteus,
Than whom they have no mightier help in war.
Then, prefaced with an oath, declare thy news,
Orestes' death by dire mischance, down-rolled
From wheel-borne chariot in the Pythian course.
So let the fable be devised; while we,
As Phoebus ordered, with luxuriant locks
Shorn from our brows, and fair libations, crown
My father's sepulchre, and thence return
Bearing aloft the shapely vase of bronze
That's hidden hard by in brushwood, as thou knowest,
And bring them welcome tidings, that my form
Is fallen ere now to ashes in the fire.
How should this pain me, in pretence being dead,
Really to save myself and win renown?
No saying bodes men ill, that brings them gain.
Oft have I known the wise, dying in word,
Return with glorious salutation home.
So lightened by this rumour shall mine eye
Blaze yet like bale-star on mine enemies.
O native earth! and Gods that hold the land,
Accept me here, and prosper this my way!
Thou, too, paternal hearth! To thee I come,
Justly to cleanse thee by behest from heaven.
Send me not bootless, Gods, but let me found
A wealthy line of fair posterity!
I have spoken. To thy charge! and with good heed
Perform it. We go forth. The Occasion calls,
Great taskmaster of enterprise to men.

ELECTRA (_within_). Woe for my hapless lot!

OLD M. Hark! from the doors, my son, methought there came
A moaning cry, as of some maid within.

OR. Can it be poor Electra? Shall we stay,
And list again the lamentable sound?

OLD M. Not so. Before all else begin the attempt
To execute Apollo's sovereign will,
Pouring libation to thy sire: this makes
Victory ours, and our success assured.                       [_Exeunt_

_Enter_ ELECTRA.

MONODY.

EL. O purest light!
And air by earth alone
Measured and limitable, how oft have ye
Heard many a piercing moan,
Many a blow full on my bleeding breast,
When gloomy night
Hath slackened pace and yielded to the day!
And through the hours of rest,
Ah! well 'tis known
To my sad pillow in yon house of woe,
What vigil of scant joyance keeping,
Whiles all within are sleeping,
For my dear father without stint I groan,
Whom not in bloody fray
The War-god in the stranger-land
Received with hospitable hand,
But she that is my mother, and her groom,
As woodmen fell the oak,
Cleft through the skull with murdering stroke.
And o'er this gloom
No ray of pity, save from only me,
Goes forth on thee,
My father, who didst die
A cruel death of piteous agony.
But ne'er will I
Cease from my crying and sad mourning lay,
While I behold the sky,
Glancing with myriad fires, or this fair day.
But, like some brood-bereaved nightingale,
With far-heard wail,
Here at my father's door my voice shall sound.
O home beneath the ground!
Hades unseen, and dread Persephone,
And darkling Hermes, and the Curse revered,
And ye, Erinyes, of mortals feared,
Daughters of Heaven, that ever see
Who die unjustly, who are wronged i' the bed
Of those they wed,
Avenge our father's murder on his foe!
Aid us, and send my brother to my side;
Alone I cannot longer bide
The oppressive strain of strength-o'ermastering woe.

CHORUS (_entering_).
      O sad Electra, child                                         I 1
Of a lost mother, why still flow
Unceasingly with lamentation wild
For him who through her treachery beguiled,
Inveigled by a wife's deceit,
Fallen at the foul adulterer's feet,
Most impiously was quelled long years ago?
Perish the cause! if I may lawfully pray so.

EL. O daughters of a noble line,
Ye come to soothe me from my troublous woe.
        I see, I know:
Your love is not unrecognized of mine.
But yet I will not seem as I forgot,
Or cease to mourn my hapless father's lot.
        Oh, of all love
That ever may you move,
This only boon I crave--
Leave me to rave!

CH. Lament, nor praying breath                                     I 2
Will raise thy sire, our honoured chief,
From that dim multitudinous gulf of death.
Beyond the mark, due grief that measureth,
Still pining with excess of pain
Thou urgest lamentation vain,
That from thy woes can bring thee no relief.
Why hast thou set thy heart on unavailing grief?

EL. Senseless were he who lost from thought
A noble father, lamentably slain!
        I love thy strain,
Bewildered mourner, bird divinely taught,
For 'Itys,' 'Itys,' ever heard to pine.
O Niobe, I hold thee all divine,
        Of sorrows queen,
Who with all tearful mien
Insepulchred in stone
Aye makest moan.

CH. Not unto thee alone hath sorrow come,                         II 1
Daughter, that thou shouldst carry grief so far
Beyond those dwellers in the palace-home
        Who of thy kindred are
And own one source with thee.
        What life hath she,
Chrysothemis, and Iphianassa bright,
        And he whose light
Is hidden afar from taste of horrid doom,
Youthful Orestes, who shall come
To fair Mycenae's glorious town,
Welcomed as worthy of his sire's renown,
Sped by great Zeus with kindly thought,
And to this land with happiest omen brought?

EL. Awaiting him I endlessly endure;
Unwed and childless still I go,
        With tears in constant flow,
Girt round with misery that finds no cure.
But he forgets his wrong and all my teaching.
What message have I sent beseeching,
But baffled flies back idly home?
Ever he longs, he saith, but, longing, will not come.

CH. Take heart, dear child! still mighty in the sky               II 2
Is Zeus who ruleth all things and surveys.
Commit to him thy grief that surgeth high,
        And walk in safer ways,
Let not hate vex thee sore,
        Nor yet ignore
The cause of hate and sorrow in thy breast.
        Time bringeth rest:
All is made easy through his power divine.
The heir of Agamemnon's line
Who dwells by Crisa's pastoral strand
Shall yet return unto his native land;
And he shall yet regard his own
Who reigns beneath upon his Stygian throne.

EL. Meanwhile my life falls from me in despair
Years pass and patience nought avails:
        My heart within me fails:
Orphaned I pine without protecting care;
And like a sojourner all unregarded
At slave-like labour unrewarded
I toil within my father's hall
Thus meanly attired, and starved, a table-serving thrall.

CH. Sad was thy greeting when he reached the strand,             III 1
Piteous thy crying where thy father lay
        On that fell day
When the bronze edge with dire effect was driven.
        By craft 'twas planned,
By frenzied lust the blow was given:
Mother and father of a monstrous birth,
Whether a God there wrought or mortal of the Earth.

EL. O day beyond all days that yet have rolled
Most hateful in thy course of light!
        O horror of that night!
O hideous feast, abhorr'd, not to be told!
How could I bear it, when my father's eye
Saw death advancing from the ruthless pair,
Conjoint in cruel villany,
By whom my life was plunged in black despair?
Oh, to the workers of such deeds as these
        May great Olympus' Lord
Return of evil still afford,
Nor let them wear the gloss of sovran ease!

CH. Take thought to keep thy crying within bound.                III 2
Doth not thy sense enlighten thee to see
        How recklessly
Even now thou winnest undeserved woe?
        Still art thou found
To make thy misery overflow
Through self-bred gloomy strife. But not for long
Shall one alone prevail who strives against the strong.

EL. 'Twas dire oppression taught me my complaint
I know my rage a quenchless fire:
        But nought, however dire,
Shall visit this my frenzy with restraint,
Or check my lamentation while I live.
Dear friends, kind women of true Argive breed,
Say, who can timely counsel give
Or word of comfort suited to my need?
Beyond all cure shall this my cause be known.
        No counsels more! Ah leave,
Vain comforters, and let me grieve
With ceaseless pain, unmeasured in my moan.

CH. With kind intent                                                IV
Full tenderly my words are meant;
Like a true mother pressing heart to heart,
I pray thee, do not aggravate thy smart.

EL. But have my miseries a measure? Tell.
        Can it be well
To pour forgetfulness upon the dead?
        Hath mortal head
Conceived a wickedness so bold?
O never may such brightness shine for me,
        Nor let me peaceful be
With aught of good my life may still enfold,
If from wide echoing of my father's name
The wings of keen lament I must withhold.
        Sure holy shame
And pious care would vanish among men,
If he, mere earth and nothingness, must lie
In darkness, and his foes shall not again
Render him blood for blood in amplest penalty.

LEADER OF CH. Less from our own desires, my child, we came,
Than for thy sake. But, if we speak amiss,
Take thine own course. We still will side with thee.

EL. Full well I feel that too impatiently
I seem to multiply the sounds of woe.
Yet suffer me, dear women! Mighty force
Compels me. Who that had a noble heart
And saw her father's cause, as I have done,
By day and night more outraged, could refrain?
Are my woes lessening? Are they not in bloom?--
My mother full of hate and hateful proved,
Whilst I in my own home must dwell with these,
My father's murderers, and by them be ruled,
Dependent on their bounty even for bread.
And then what days suppose you I must pass,
When I behold Aegisthus on the throne
That was my father's; when I see him wear
Such robes, and pour libations by the hearth
Where he destroyed him; lastly, when I see
Their crowning insolence,--our regicide
Laid in my father's chamber beside her,
My mother--if she still must bear the name
When resting in those arms? Her shame is dead.
She harbours with blood-guiltiness, and fears
No vengeance, but, as laughing at the wrong,
She watches for the hour wherein with guile
She killed our sire, and orders dance and mirth
That day o' the month, and joyful sacrifice
Of thanksgiving. But I within the house
Beholding, weep and pine, and mourn that feast
Of infamy, called by my father's name,
All to myself; for not even grief may flow
As largely as my spirit would desire.
That so-called princess of a noble race
O'ercrows my wailing with loud obloquy:
'Hilding! are you alone in grief? Are none
Mourning for loss of fathers but yourself?
'Fore the blest Gods! ill may you thrive, and ne'er
Find cure of sorrow from the powers below!'
So she insults: unless she hear one say
'Orestes will arrive': then standing close,
She shouts like one possessed into mine ear,
'These are your doings, this your work, I trow.
You stole Orestes from my gripe, and placed
His life with fosterers; but you shall pay
Full penalty.' So harsh is her exclaim.
And he at hand, the husband she extols,
Hounds on the cry, that prince of cowardice,
From head to foot one mass of pestilent harm.
Tongue-doughty champion of this women's-war.
I, for Orestes ever languishing
To end this, am undone. For evermore
Intending, still delaying, he wears out
All hope, both here and yonder. How, then, friends,
Can I be moderate, or feel the touch
Of holy resignation? Evil fruit
Cannot but follow on a life of ill.

CH. Say, is Aegisthus near while thus you speak?
Or hath he left the palace? We would know.

EL. Most surely. Never think, if he were by,
I could stray out of door. He is abroad.

CH. Then with less fear I may converse with thee.

EL. Ask what you will, for he is nowhere near.

CH. First of thy brother I beseech thee tell,
How deem'st thou? Will he come, or still delay?

EL. His promise comes, but still performance sleeps.

CH. Well may he pause who plans a dreadful deed.

EL. I paused not in his rescue from the sword.

CH. Fear not. He will bestead you. He is true.

EL. But for that faith my life had soon gone by.

CH. No more! I see approaching from the house
Thy sister by both parents of thy blood,
Chrysothemis; in her hand an offering,
Such as old custom yields to those below.

_Enter_ CHRYSOTHEMIS.

CHRYSOTHEMIS. What converse keeps thee now beyond the gates,
Dear sister? why this talk in the open day?
Wilt thou not learn after so long to cease
From vain indulgence of a bootless rage?
I know in my own breast that I am pained
By what thou griev'st at, and if I had power,
My censure of their deeds would soon be known.
But in misfortune I have chosen to sail
With lowered canvas, rather than provoke
With puny strokes invulnerable foes.
I would thou didst the like: though I must own
The right is on thy side, and not on mine.
But if I mean to dwell at liberty,
I must obey in all the stronger will.

EL. 'Tis strange and pitiful, thy father's child
Can leave him in oblivion and subserve
The mother. All thy schooling of me springs
From her suggestion, not of thine own wit.
Sure, either thou art senseless, or thy sense
Deserts thy friends. Treason or dulness then?
Choose!--You declared but now, if you had strength,
You would display your hatred of this pair.
Yet, when I plan full vengeance for my sire,
You aid me not, but turn me from the attempt.
What's this but adding cowardice to evil?
For tell me, or be patient till I show,
What should I gain by ceasing this my moan?
I live to vex them:--though my life be poor,
Yet that suffices, for I honour him,
My father,--if affection touch the dead.
You say you hate them, but belie your word,
Consorting with our father's murderers.
I then, were all the gifts in which you glory
Laid at my feet, will never more obey
This tyrant power. I leave you your rich board
And life of luxury. Ne'er be it mine[2] to feed
On dainties that would poison my heart's peace!
I care not for such honour as thou hast.
Nor wouldst thou care if thou wert wise. But now,
Having the noblest of all men for sire,
Be called thy mother's offspring; so shall most
Discern thine infamy and traitorous mind
To thy dead father and thy dearest kin.

CH. No anger, we entreat. Both have said well,
If each would learn of other, and so do.

CHR. For my part, women, use hath seasoned me
To her discourse. Nor had I spoken of this,
Had I not heard a horror coming on
That will restrain her from her endless moan.

EL. Come speak it forth, this terror! I will yield,
If thou canst tell me worse than I endure.

CHR. I'll tell thee all I know. If thou persist
In these thy wailings, they will send thee far
From thine own land, and close thee from the day,
Where in a rock-hewn chamber thou may'st chant
Thine evil orisons in darkness drear.
Think of it, while there 's leisure to reflect;
Or if thou suffer, henceforth blame me not.

EL. And have they so determined on my life?

CHR. 'Tis certain; when Aegisthus comes again.

EL. If that be all, let him return with speed!

CHR. Unhappy! why this curse upon thyself?

EL. If this be their intent, why, let him come!

CHR. To work such harm on thee! What thought is this!

EL. Far from mine eye to banish all your brood.

CHR. Art not more tender of the life thou hast?

EL. Fair, to a marvel, is my life, I trow!

CHR. It would be, couldst thou be advised for good.

EL. Never advise me to forsake my kin.

CHR. I do not: only to give place to power.

EL. Thine be such flattery. 'Tis not my way.

CHR. Sure, to be wrecked by rashness is not well.

EL. Let me be wrecked in 'venging my own sire.

CHR. I trust his pardon for my helplessness.

EL. Such talk hath commendation from the vile.

CHR. Wilt thou not listen? Wilt thou ne'er be ruled?

EL. No; not by thee! Let me not sink so low.

CHR. Then I will hie me on mine errand straight.

EL. Stay; whither art bound? For whom to spend those gifts?

CHR. Sent by my mother to my father's tomb
To pour libations to him.

EL.                       How? To him?
Most hostile to her of all souls that are?

CHR. Who perished by her hand--so thou wouldst say.

EL. What friend hath moved her? Who hath cared for this?

CHR. Methinks 'twas some dread vision, seen by night.

EL. Gods of my father, O be with me now!

CHR. What? art thou hopeful from the fear I spake of?

EL. Tell me the dream, and I will answer thee.

CHR. I know but little of it.

EL.                           Speak but that.
A little word hath ofttimes been the cause
Of ruin or salvation unto men.

CHR. 'Tis said she saw our father's spirit come
Once more to visit the abodes of light;
Then take and firmly plant upon the hearth
The sceptre which he bore of old, and now
Aegisthus bears: and out of this upsprang
A burgeoned shoot, that shadowed all the ground
Of loved Mycenae. So I heard the tale
Told by a maid who listened when the Queen
Made known her vision to the God of Day.
But more than this I know not, save that I
Am sent by her through terror of the dream.
And I beseech thee by the Gods we serve
To take my counsel and not rashly fall.
If thou repel me now, the time may come
When suffering shall have brought thee to my side.

EL. Now, dear Chrysothemis, of what thou bearest
Let nothing touch his tomb. 'Tis impious
And criminal to offer to thy sire
Rites and libations from a hateful wife.
Then cast them to the winds, or deep in dust
Conceal them, where no particle may reach
His resting-place: but lie in store for her
When she goes underground. Sure, were she not
Most hardened of all women that have been,
She ne'er had sent those loveless offerings
To grace the sepulchre of him she slew.
For think how likely is the buried king
To take such present kindly from her hand,
Who slew him like an alien enemy,
Dishonoured even in death, and mangled him,
And wiped the death-stain with his flowing locks--
Sinful purgation! Think you that you bear
In those cold gifts atonement for her guilt?
It is not possible. Wherefore let be.
But take a ringlet from thy comely head,
And this from mine, that lingers on my brow[3]
Longing to shade his tomb. Ah, give it to him,
All I can give, and this my maiden-zone,
Not daintily adorned, as once erewhile.
Then, humbly kneeling, pray that from the ground
He would arise to help us 'gainst his foes,
And grant his son Orestes with high hand
Strongly to trample on his enemies;
That in our time to come from ampler stores
We may endow him, than are ours to-day.
I cannot but imagine that his will
Hath part in visiting her sleep with fears.
But howsoe'er, I pray thee, sister mine,
Do me this service, and thyself, and him,
Dearest of all the world to me and thee,
The father of us both, who rests below.

CH. She counsels piously; and thou, dear maid,
If thou art wise, wilt do her bidding here.

CHR. Yea, when a thing is right, it is not well
Idly to wrangle, but to act with speed.
Only, dear friends, in this mine enterprise,
Let me have silence from your lips, I pray;
For should my mother know of it, sharp pain
Will follow yet my bold adventurous feat.         [_Exit_ CHRYSOTHEMIS

CHORUS.
    An erring seer am I,                                           I 1
    Of sense and wisdom lorn,
    If this prophetic Power of right,
    O'ertaking the offender, come not nigh
          Ere many an hour be born.
          Yon vision of the night,
    That lately breathed into my listening ear,
    Hath freed me, O my daughter, from all fear.
    Sweet was that bodement. He doth not forget,
    The Achaean lord that gave thee being, nor yet
    The bronzen-griding axe, edged like a spear,
    Hungry and keen, though dark with stains of time,
    That in the hour of hideous crime
    Quelled him with cruel butchery:
    That, too, remembers, and shall testify.

    From ambush deep and dread                                     I 2
    With power of many a hand
    And many hastening feet shall spring
    The Fury of the adamantine tread,
          Visiting Argive land
          Swift recompense to bring
    For eager dalliance of a blood-stained pair
    Unhallowed, foul, forbidden. No omen fair,--
    Their impious course hath fixed this in my soul,--
    Nought but black portents full of blame shall roll
    Before their eyes that wrought or aided there.
    Small force of divination would there seem
    In prophecy or solemn dream,
    Should not this vision of the night
    Reach harbour in reality aright.

    O chariot-course of Pelops, full of toil[4]!                    II
          How wearisome and sore
    Hath been thine issue to our native soil!--
    Since, from the golden oar
    Hurled to the deep afar,
          Myrtilus sank and slept,
    Cruelly plucked from that fell chariot-floor,
    This house unceasingly hath kept
    Crime and misfortune mounting evermore.

_Enter_ CLYTEMNESTRA.

CLYTEMNESTRA. Again you are let loose and range at will.
Ay, for Aegisthus is not here, who barred
Your rashness from defaming your own kin
Beyond the gates. But now he's gone from home,
You heed not me: though you have noised abroad
That I am bold in crime, and domineer
Outrageously, oppressing thee and thine.
I am no oppressor, but I speak thee ill,
For thou art ever speaking ill of me--
Still holding forth thy father's death, that I
Have done it. So I did: I know it well:
That I deny not; for not I alone
But Justice slew him; and if you had sense,
To side with Justice ought to be your part.
For who but he of all the Greeks, your sire,
For whom you whine and cry, who else but he
Took heart to sacrifice unto the Gods
Thy sister?--having less of pain, I trow,
In getting her, than I, that bore her, knew!
Come, let me question thee! On whose behalf
Slew he my child? Was 't for the Argive host?
What right had they to traffic in my flesh?--
Menelaues was his brother. Wilt thou say
He slew my daughter for his brother's sake?
How then should he escape me? Had not he,
Menelaues, children twain, begotten of her
Whom to reclaim that army sailed to Troy?
Was Death then so enamoured of my seed,
That he must feast thereon and let theirs live?
Or was the God-abandoned father's heart
Tender toward them and cruel to my child?
Doth this not argue an insensate sire?
I think so, though your wisdom may demur.
And could my lost one speak, she would confirm it.
For my part, I can dwell on what I have done
Without regret. You, if you think me wrong,
Bring reasons forth and blame me to my face!

EL. Thou canst not say this time that I began
And brought this on me by some taunting word.
But, so you'd suffer me, I would declare
The right both for my sister and my sire.

CLY. Thou hast my sufferance. Nor would hearing vex,
If ever thus you tuned your speech to me.

EL. Then I will speak. You say you slew him. Where
Could there be found confession more depraved,
Even though the cause were righteous? But I'll prove
No rightful vengeance drew thee to the deed,
But the vile bands of him you dwell with now.
Or ask the huntress Artemis, what sin
She punished, when she tied up all the winds
Round Aulis.--I will tell thee, for her voice
Thou ne'er may'st hear! 'Tis rumoured that my sire,
Sporting within the goddess' holy ground,
His foot disturbed a dappled hart, whose death
Drew from his lips some rash and boastful word.
Wherefore Latona's daughter in fell wrath
Stayed the army, that in quittance for the deer
My sire should slay at the altar his own child.
So came her sacrifice. The Achaean fleet
Had else no hope of being launched to Troy
Nor to their homes. Wherefore, with much constraint
And painful urging of his backward will,
Hardly he yielded;--not for his brother's sake.
But grant thy speech were sooth, and all were done
In aid of Menelaues; for this cause
Hadst thou the right to slay him? What high law
Ordaining? Look to it, in establishing
Such precedent thou dost not lay in store
Repentance for thyself. For if by right
One die for one, thou first wilt be destroyed
If Justice find thee.--But again observe
The hollowness of thy pretended plea.
Tell me, I pray, what cause thou dost uphold
In doing now the basest deed of all,
Chambered with the blood-guilty, with whose aid
Thou slewest our father in that day. For him
You now bear children--ousting from their right
The stainless offspring of a holy sire.
How should this plead for pardon? Wilt thou say
Thus thou dost 'venge thy daughter's injury?
O shameful plea? Where is the thought of honour,
If foes are married for a daughter's sake?--
Enough. No words can move thee. Thy rash tongue
With checkless clamour cries that we revile
Our mother. Nay, no mother, but the chief
Of tyrants to us! For my life is full
Of weariness and misery from thee
And from thy paramour. While he abroad,
Orestes, our one brother, who escaped
Hardly from thy attempt, unhappy boy!
Wears out his life, victim of cross mischance.
Oft hast thou taunted me with fostering him
To be thy punisher. And this, be sure,
Had I but strength, I had done. Now for this word,
Proclaim me what thou wilt,--evil in soul,
Or loud in cursing, or devoid of shame:
For if I am infected with such guilt,
Methinks my nature is not fallen from thine.

CH. (_looking at_ CLYTEMNESTRA).
I see her fuming with fresh wrath: the thought
Of justice enters not her bosom now.

CLY. What thought of justice should be mine for her,
Who at her age can so insult a mother?
Will shame withhold her from the wildest deed?

EL. Not unashamed, assure thee, I stand here,
Little as thou mayest deem it. Well I feel
My acts untimely and my words unmeet.
But your hostility and treatment force me
Against my disposition to this course.
Harsh ways are taught by harshness.

CLY.                                Brazen thing!
Too true it is that words and deeds of mine
Are evermore informing thy harsh tongue.

EL. The shame is yours, because the deeds are yours.
My words are but their issue and effect.

CLY. By sovereign Artemis, whom still I serve,
You'll rue this boldness when Aegisthus comes.

EL. See now, your anger bears you off, and ne'er
Will let you listen, though you gave me leave.

CLY. Must I not even sacrifice in peace
From your harsh clamour, when you've had your say?

EL. I have done. I check thee not. Go, sacrifice!
Accuse not me of hindering piety.

CLY. (_to an attendant_).
Then lift for me those fruitful offerings,
While to Apollo, before whom we stand,
I raise my supplication for release
From doubts and fears that shake my bosom now.
And, O defender of our house! attend
My secret utterance. No friendly ear
Is that which hearkens for my voice. My thought
Must not be blazoned with her standing by,
Lest through her envious and wide-babbling tongue
She fill the city full of wild surmise.
List, then, as I shall speak: and grant the dreams
Whose two-fold apparition I to-night
Have seen, if good their bodement, be fulfilled:
If hostile, turn their influence on my foes.
And yield not them their wish that would by guile
Thrust me from this high fortune, but vouchsafe
That ever thus exempt from harms I rule
The Atridae's home and kingdom, in full life,
Partaking with the friends I live with now
All fair prosperity, and with my children,
Save those who hate and vex me bitterly.
Lykeian Phoebus, favourably hear
My prayer, and grant to all of us our need!
More is there, which, though I be silent here,
A God should understand. No secret thing
Is hidden from the all-seeing sons of Heaven.

_Enter the_ Old Man.

OLD M. Kind dames and damsels, may I clearly know
If these be King Aegisthus' palace-halls?

CH. They are, sir; you yourself have guessed aright.

OLD M. May I guess further that in yonder dame
I see his queen? She looks right royally.

CH. 'Tis she,--no other,--whom your eyes behold.

OLD M. Princess, all hail! To thee and to thy spouse
I come with words of gladness from a friend.

CLY. That auspice I accept. But I would first
Learn from thee who of men hath sent thee forth?

OLD M. Phanoteus the Phocian, with a charge of weight.

CLY. Declare it, stranger. Coming from a friend,
Thou bring'st us friendly tidings, I feel sure.

OLD M. Orestes' death. Ye have the sum in brief.

EL. Ah me! undone! This day hath ruined me.

CLY. What? Let me hear again. Regard her not.

OLD M. Again I say it, Orestes is no more.

EL. Undone! undone! Farewell to life and hope!

CLY. (_to_ ELECTRA).
See thou to thine own case! (_To_ Old Man) Now, stranger, tell me
In true discourse the manner of his death.

OLD M. For that I am here, and I will tell the whole.
He, entering on the great arena famed
As Hellas' pride, to win a Delphian prize,
On hearing the loud summons of the man
Calling the foot-race, which hath trial first,
Came forward, a bright form, admired by all.
And when his prowess in the course fulfilled
The promise of his form, he issued forth
Dowered with the splendid meed of victory.--
To tell a few out of the many feats
Of such a hero were beyond my power.
Know then, in brief, that of the prizes set
For every customary course proclaimed
By order of the judges, the whole sum
Victoriously he gathered, happy deemed
By all; declared an Argive, and his name
Orestes, son of him who levied once
The mighty armament of Greeks for Troy.
So fared he then: but when a God inclines
To hinder happiness, not even the strong
Are scatheless. So, another day, when came
At sunrise the swift race of charioteers,
He entered there with many a rival car:--
One from Achaia, one from Sparta, two
Libyan commanders of the chariot-yoke;
And he among them fifth, with steeds of price
From Thessaly;--the sixth Aetolia sent
With chestnut mares; the seventh a Magnete man;
The eighth with milk-white colts from Oeta's vale;
The ninth from god-built Athens; and the tenth
Boeotia gave to make the number full.
Then stood they where the judges of the course
Had posted them by lot, each with his team;
And sprang forth at the brazen trumpet's blare.
Shouting together to their steeds, they shook
The reins, and all the course was filled with noise
Of rattling chariots, and the dust arose
To heaven. Now all in a confused throng
Spared not the goad, each eager to outgo
The crowded axles and the snorting steeds;
For close about his nimbly circling wheels
And stooping sides fell flakes of panted foam.
Orestes, ever nearest at the turn,
With whirling axle seemed to graze the stone,
And loosing with free rein the right-hand steed
That pulled the side-rope[5], held the near one in.
  So for a time all chariots upright moved,
But soon the Oetaean's hard-mouthed horses broke
From all control, and wheeling as they passed
From the sixth circuit to begin the seventh,
Smote front to front against the Barcan car.
And when that one disaster had befallen,
Each dashed against his neighbour and was thrown,
Till the whole plain was strewn with chariot-wreck.
Then the Athenian, skilled to ply the rein,
Drew on one side, and heaving to, let pass
The rider-crested surge that rolled i' the midst.
Meanwhile Orestes, trusting to the end,
Was driving hindmost with tight rein; but now,
Seeing him left the sole competitor,
Hurling fierce clamour through his steeds, pursued:
So drave they yoke by yoke--now this, now that
Pulling ahead with car and team. Orestes,
Ill-fated one, each previous course had driven
Safely without a check, but after this,
In letting loose again the left-hand rein[6],
He struck the edge of the stone before he knew,
Shattering the axle's end, and tumbled prone,
Caught in the reins[7], that dragged him with sharp thongs.
Then as he fell to the earth the horses swerved,
And roamed the field. The people when they saw
Him fallen from out the car, lamented loud
For the fair youth, who had achieved before them
Such glorious feats, and now had found such woe,--
Dashed on the ground, then tossed with legs aloft
Against the sky,--until the charioteers,
Hardly restraining the impetuous team,
Released him, covered so with blood that none,--
No friend who saw--had known his hapless form.
Which then we duly burned upon the pyre.
And straightway men appointed to the task
From all the Phocians bear his mighty frame--
Poor ashes! narrowed in a brazen urn,--
That he may find in his own fatherland
His share of sepulture.--Such our report,
Painful to hear, but unto us, who saw,
The mightiest horror that e'er met mine eye.

CH. Alas! the stock of our old masters, then,
Is utterly uprooted and destroyed.

CLY. O heavens! what shall I say? That this is well?
Or terrible, but gainful? Hard my lot,
To save my life through my calamity!

OLD M. Lady, why hath my speech disheartened thee?

CLY. To be a mother hath a marvellous power:
No injury can make one hate one's child.

OLD M. Then it should seem our coming was in vain.

CLY. In vain? Nay, verily; thou, that hast brought
Clear evidences of his fate, who, sprung
Prom my life's essence, severed from my breast
And nurture, was estranged in banishment,
And never saw me from the day he went
Out from this land, but for his father's blood
Threatened me still with accusation dire;
That sleep nor soothed at night nor sweetly stole
My senses from the day, but, all my time,
Each instant led me on the way to death!--
But this day's chance hath freed me from all fear
Of him, and of this maid: who being at home
Troubled me more, and with unmeasured thirst
Kept draining my life-blood; but now her threats
Will leave us quiet days, methinks, and peace
Unbroken.--How then shouldst thou come in vain?

EL. O misery! 'Tis time to wail thy fate,
Orestes, when, in thy calamity,
Thy mother thus insults thee. Is it well?

CLY. 'Tis well that he is gone, not that you live.

EL. Hear, 'venging spirits of the lately dead!

CLY. The avenging spirits have heard and answered well.

EL. Insult us now, for thou art fortunate!

CLY. You and Orestes are to quench my pride.

EL. Our pride is quenched. No hope of quenching thee!

CLY. A world of good is in thy coming, stranger,
Since thou hast silenced this all-clamorous tongue.

OLD M. Then I may go my way, seeing all is well.

CLY. Nay, go not yet! That would disgrace alike
Me and the friend who sent you to our land.
But come thou in, and leave her out of door
To wail her own and loved ones' overthrow.
                                  [_Exeunt_ CLYTEMNESTRA _and_ Old Man

EL. Think you the wretch in heartfelt agony
Weeps inconsolably her perished son?
She left us with a laugh! O misery!
How thou hast ruined me, dear brother mine,
By dying! Thou hast torn from out my heart
The only hope I cherished yet, that thou
Living wouldst come hereafter to avenge
Thy father's woes and mine. Where must I go?
Since I am left of thee and of my sire
Bereaved and lonely, and once more must be
The drudge and menial of my bitterest foes,
My father's murderers. Say, is it well?
Nay, nevermore will I consort with these,
But sinking here before the palace gate,
Thus, friendless, I will wither out my life.
Hereat if any in the house be vexed,
Let them destroy me; for to take my life
Were kindness, and to live is only pain:
Life hath not kindled my desires with joy.

CH. 1. O ever-blazing sun!                                         I 1
      O lightning of the eternal Sire!
      Can ye behold this done
      And tamely hide your all-avenging fire?

EL.   Ah me!

CH. 2.       My daughter, why these tears?

EL.   Woe!

CH. 3.     Weep not, calm thy fears.

EL.   You kill me.

CH. 4.             How?

EL.                     To breathe
      A hope for one beneath
      So clearly sunk in death,
      'Tis to afflict me more
      Already pining sore.

CH. 5. One in a woman's toils                                      I 2
Was tangled[8], buried by her glittering coils,
Who now beneath--

EL.              Ah woe!

CH. 6. Rules with a spirit unimpaired and strong.

EL. O dreadful!

CH. 7.          Dreadful was the wrong.

EL. But she was quelled.

CH. 8.                   Ay.

EL.                          True!
That faithful mourner knew
A brother's aid. But I
Have no man now. The one
I had, is gone, is gone.
Rapt into nothingness.

CH. 9. Thou art wrung with sore distress.                         II 1

EL. I know it. Too well I know,
Taught by a life of woe,
Where horror dwells without relief.

CH. 10. Our eyes have seen thy grief.

EL. Then comfort not again--

CH. 11. Whither now turns thy strain?

EL. One utterly bereft,
Seeing no hope is left,
Of help from hands owning the same great sire.

CH. 12. 'Tis nature's debt.                                       II 2

EL.                         To expire
    On sharp-cut dragging thongs,
    'Midst wildly trampling throngs
    Of swiftly racing hoofs, like him,
    Poor hapless one?

CH. 13.               Vast, dim,
    And boundless was the harm.

EL. Yea, severed from mine arm,
    By strangers kept--

CH. 14.                O pain!

EL. Hidden he must remain,
    Of me unsepulchred, unmourned, unwept.

_Enter_ CHRYSOTHEMIS.

CHR. Driven by delight, dear sister, I am come,
Reckless of dignity, with headlong speed.
For news I bear of joy and sweet relief
From ills that drew from thee thy ceaseless moan.

EL. Whence couldst thou hear of succour for my woes,
That close in darkness without hope of dawn?

CHR. Here is Orestes, learn it from my mouth,
As certainly as you now look on me.

EL. What? Art thou mad, unhappy one, to laugh
Over thine own calamity and mine?

CHR. No, by our father's hearth, I say not this
In mockery. I tell you he is come.

EL. Me miserable! Who hath given thine ear
The word that so hath wrought on thy belief?

CHR. Myself am the eyewitness, no one else
Gained my belief, but proofs I clearly saw.

EL. What sign hath so engrossed thine eye, poor girl?
What sight hath fired thee with this quenchless glow?

CHR. But list to me, I pray thee, that henceforth
Thou mayest account me clear eyed, or a fool!

EL. By all means, if it pleasure thee, say on.

CHR. Well, I will tell thee all I saw:--I came
Unto the ancient tomb that holds our sire;
And from the topmost mound I marked a stream
Of milk fresh-flowing, and his resting place
Ringed round with garlands of all flowers that blow.
I marvelled at the sight, and peered about,
Lest some one might be nearer than we knew.
But finding all was quiet in the spot,
I ventured closer to the tomb, and there,
Hard by the limit, I beheld a curl
Of hair new shorn, with all the gloss of youth
And straight it struck my heart, as with a sense
Of something seen, ah me! long, long ago,
And told me that my sight encountered here
The token of Orestes, dearest soul
Then, clasping it, I did not cry aloud,
But straight mine eyes were filled with tears of joy.
And now as much as then I feel assured
He and none else bestowed this ornament.
To whom beyond thyself and me belongs
Such consecration? And I know this well,
I did it not,--nor thou. Impossible!
Thou canst not worship even the blessed Gods
Forth of this roof, unpunished. And, most sure,
Our mother is not minded so to act,
Nor, had she done it, could we fail to know.
This offering comes then of Orestes' hand.
Take courage, dear one. Not one fate pursues
One house perpetually, but changeth still.
Ours was a sullen Genius, but perchance
This day begins the assurance of much good.

EL. Oh how I pity thine infatuate mind!

CHR. Why? Dost thou find no comfort in my news?

EL. You know not where you roam. Far wide! far wide!

CHR. Not know? when I have seen it with mine eyes?

EL. Dear, he is dead. Look not to him, poor girl!
Salvation comes to thee no more from him.

CHR. Oh me, unfortunate! Who told thee this?

EL. He who stood by and saw his life destroyed.

CHR. Amazement seizes me. Where is that man?

EL. Right welcome to the mother there within.

CHR. Me miserable! Who then can have decked
With all those ceremonies our father's tomb?

EL. I cannot but suppose some hand hath brought
These gifts in memory of Orestes dead.

CHR. O cruel fate! While I in ecstasy
Sped with such news, all ignorant, it seems,
Of our dire fortune; and, arriving, find
Fresh sorrows added to the former woe.

EL. It is so, sister; yet if thou wilt list
To me, thou mayest disperse this heaviness.

CHR. What? Shall I raise the dead again to life?

EL. I did not mean so. I am not so fond.

CHR. What bid you then that I have power to do?

EL. To endure courageously what I enjoin.

CHR. So it make profit, I will not refuse.

EL. Remember, without toil no plan may thrive!

CHR. I know it, and will aid thee to my power.

EL. Then hearken my resolve. Thou seest now,
We have no friendly succour in the world;
But death has taken all, and we are left
Two only. I, so long as I could hear
My brother lived and flourished, still had hope
He would arise to wreak his father's blood.
But now that he is gone, to thee I turn,
To help thy sister boldly to destroy
The guilty author of our father's death,
Aegisthus.--Wherefore hide it from thee now?
--Yea, sister! Till what term wilt thou remain
Inactive? To what end? What hope is yet
Left standing? Surely thou hast cause to grieve,
Bobbed of thy father's opulent heritage,
And feeling bitterly the creeping years
That find thee still a virgin and unwed.
Nay, nor imagine thou shalt ever know
That blessing. Not so careless of his life
Is King Aegisthus, as to risk the birth
Of sons from us, to his most certain fall.
But if thou wilt but follow my resolve,
First thou shalt win renown of piety
From our dead father, and our brother too,
Who rest beneath the ground, and shalt be free
For evermore in station as in birth,
And nobly matched in marriage, for the good
Draw gazers to them still. Then seest thou not
What meed of honour, if thou dost my will,
Thou shalt apportion to thyself and me?
For who, beholding us, what citizen,
What foreigner, will not extend the hand
Of admiration, and exclaim, 'See, friends,
These scions of one stock, these noble twain,
These that have saved their father's house from woe,
Who once when foes were mighty, set their life
Upon a cast, and stood forth to avenge
The stain of blood! Who will not love the pair
And do them reverence? Who will not give
Honour at festivals, and in the throng
Of popular resort, to these in chief,
For their high courage and their bold emprise?'
Such fame will follow us in all the world.
Living or dying, still to be renowned.
Ah, then, comply, dear sister; give thy sire
This toil--this labour to thy brother give;
End these my sufferings, end thine own regret:
The well-born cannot bear to live in shame.

CH. In such affairs, for those who speak and hear
Wise thoughtfulness is still the best ally.

CHR. True, noble women, and before she spake
Sound thought should have prevented the rash talk
That now hath proved her reckless. What wild aim
Beckons thee forth in arming this design
Whereto thou wouldst demand my ministry?
Dost not perceive, thou art not man but woman,
Of strength inferior to thine enemies,--
Their Genius daily prospering more and more,
Whilst ours is dwindling into nothingness?
Who then that plots against a life so strong
Shall quit him of the danger without harm?
Take heed we do not add to our distress
Should some one hear of this our colloquy.
Small help and poor advantage 'twere for us
To win brief praise and then inglorious die.
Nay, death is not so hateful as when one
Desiring death is balked of that desire.
And I beseech thee, ere in utter ruin
We perish and make desolate our race,
Refrain thy rage. And I will guard for thee
In silence these thy words unrealized;
If thou wilt learn this wisdom from long time,
Having no strength, to bend before the strong.

CH. Comply. Than prudence and a heedful mind,
No fairer treasure can be found for men.

EL. Thy words have not surprised me. Well I knew
The good I offered would come back with scorn.
I, all alone and with a single hand,
Must do this. For it shall not rest undone.

CHR. Would thou hadst been thus minded when our sire
Lay dying! In one act thou hadst compassed all.

EL. My spirit was the same: my mind was less.

CHR. Be such the life-long temper of thy mind!

EL. Thine admonition augurs little aid.

CHR. Yea. For the attempt would bring me certain bane.

EL. I envy thee thy prudence, hate thy fear.

CHR. Even when thou speak'st me fair, I will endure it.

EL. Take heart. That never will be thine from me.

CHR. Long time remains to settle that account.

EL. I find no profit in thee. Go thy way.

CHR. Profit there is, hadst thou a mind to learn.

EL. Go to thy mother and declare all this!

CHR. I am not so in hatred of thy life.

EL. Yet know the shame thou wouldst prepare for me.

CHR. No, no! Not shame, but care for thine estate.

EL. Must I still follow as thou thinkest good?

CHR. When thou hast wisdom, thou shalt be the guide.

EL. 'Tis hard when error wears the garb of sense.

CHR. Right. That is the misfortune of your case.

EL. Why? Feel you not the justice of my speech?

CHR. Justice may chance to bring me injury.

EL. I care not, I, to live by such a rule.

CHR. Well, if you do it, you will find me wise.

EL. Well, I will do it, nought dismayed by thee.

CHR. Speak you plain sooth? and will you not be counselled?

EL. No, for bad counsel is of all most hateful.

CHR. You take the sense of nothing that I say.

EL. Long since, not newly, my resolve is firm.

CHR. Then I will go. Thy heart will ne'er be brought
To praise my words, nor I thine action here.

EL. Then go within! I will not follow thee,
Though thou desire it vehemently. None
Would be so fond to hunt on a cold trail.

CHR. If this seem wisdom to thee, then be wise
Thy way: but in the hour of misery,
When it hath caught thee, thou wilt praise my words.
                                                  [_Exit_ CHRYSOTHEMIS

CHORUS.
          Wise are the birds of air                                I 1
          That with true filial care
    For those provide convenient food
    Who gave them birth, who wrought their good.
    Why will not men the like perfection prove?
          Else, by the fires above,
          And heavenly Rectitude,
    Fierce recompense they shall not long elude.
    O darkling rumour, world-o'er-wandering voice
    That piercest to the shades beneath the ground,
    To dead Atrides waft a sound
    Of sad reproach, not bidding him rejoice.

          Stained is the ancestral hall,                           I 2
          Broken the battle-call,
    That heretofore his children twain
    In loving concord did sustain.
    Alone, deserted, vexed, Electra sails,
          Storm-tossed with rugged gales,
          Lamenting evermore
    Like piteous Philomel, and pining sore
    For her lost father;--might she but bring down
    That two-fold Fury, caring not for death,
    But ready to resign her breath,
    What maid so worthy of a sire's renown?

    None who inherit from a noble race,                           II 1
          Complying with things base
    Will let their ancient glory be defiled.
          So 'twas thy choice, dear child,
    Through homeless misery[9] to win a two-fold prize,
          Purging the sin and shame[10]
          That cloud the Argive name,
    So to be called most noble and most wise.

    May'st thou surpass thy foes in wealth and power              II 2
          As o'er thee now they tower!
    Since I have found thee, not in bright estate,
          Nor blessed by wayward fate,
    But through thy loyalty to Heaven's eternal cause
          Wearing the stainless crown
          Of perfectest renown,
    And richly dowered by the mightiest laws.

_Enter_ ORESTES _and_ PYLADES, _with the urn_.

OR. Say, dames and damsels, have we heard aright,
And speed we to the goal of our desire?

CH. And what desire or quest hath brought thee hither?

OR. I seek Aegisthus' dwelling all this while.

CH. Welcome. The tongue that told thee hath no blame.

OR. Which of you all will signify within
Our joint arrival,--not unwelcome here.

CH. This maiden, if the nearest should report.

OR. Mistress, wilt thou go yonder and make known,
That certain Phocians on Aegisthus wait?

EL. Oh! can it be that you are come to bring
Clear proofs of the sad rumour we have heard?

OR. I know not what ye have heard. Old Strophius
Charged me with tidings of Orestes' fate.

EL. What, stranger? How this terror steals on me!

OR. Bearing scant remnants of his body dead
In this small vase thou seest, we bring them home.

EL. O sorrow! thou art here: I see full well
That burden of my heart in present view.

OR. If thou hast tears for aught Orestes suffered,
Know that he lies within this vessel's room.

EL. Ah, sir! by all in Heaven, if yonder urn
Hide him, ah! give it once into my hand,
That o'er that dust I may lament and mourn
Myself and mine own house and all our woe!

OR. Bring it and give her, whosoe'er she be.
For not an enemy--this petition shows it--
But of his friends or kindred, is this maid.
                            [_The urn is given into_ ELECTRA'S _hands_

EL. O monument of him whom o'er all else
I loved! sole relic of Orestes' life,
How cold in this thy welcome is the hope
Wherein I decked thee as I sent thee forth!
Then bright was thy departure, whom I now
Bear lightly, a mere nothing, in my hands.
Would I had gone from life, ere I dispatched
Thee from my arms that saved thee to a land
Of strangers, stealing thee from death! For then
Thou hadst been quiet on that far off day,
And had thy portion in our father's tomb
Now thou hast perished in the stranger land
Far from thy sister, lorn and comfortless
And I, O wretchedness! neither have bathed
And laid thee forth, nor from the blazing fire
Collected the sad burden, as was meet
But thou, when foreign hands have tended thee
Com'st a small handful in a narrow shell
Woe for the constant care I spent on thee
Of old all vainly, with sweet toil! For never
Wast thou thy mother's darling, nay, but mine,
And I of all the household most thy nurse,
While 'sister, sister,' was thy voice to me
But now all this is vanished in one day,
Dying in thy death. Thou hast carried all away
As with a whirlwind, and art gone. No more
My father lives, thyself art lost in death,
I am dead, who lived in thee. Our enemies
Laugh loudly, and she maddens in her joy,
Our mother most unmotherly, of whom
Thy secret missives ofttimes told me, thou
Wouldst be the punisher. But that fair hope
The hapless Genius of thy lot and mine
Hath reft away, and gives thee thus to me,--
For thy loved form thy dust and fruitless shade
O bitterness! O piteous sight! Woe! woe!
Oh! sent on thy dire journey, dearest one,
How thou hast ruined me! Thou hast indeed,
Dear brother! Then receive me to thyself,
Hide me in this thy covering, there to dwell,
Me who am nothing, with thy nothingness,
For ever! Yea, when thou wert here above,
I ever shared with thee in all, and now
I would not have thee shut me from thy tomb.
Oh! let me die and follow thee! the dead,
My mind assures me now, have no more pain.

CH. Electra, think! Thou hadst a mortal sire,
And mortal was thy brother. Grieve not far.

OR. O me! What shall I speak, or which way turn
The desperate word? I cannot hold my tongue.

EL. What pain o'ercomes thee? Wherefore speak'st thou so?

OR. Can this be famed Electra I behold?

EL. No other. In sad case, as you may see

OR. Ah! deep indeed was this calamity!

EL. Is't possible that thou shouldst grieve for me?

OR. O ruined form! abandoned to disgrace!

EL. 'Tis me you mean, stranger, I feel it now.

OR. Woe 's me! Untrimmed for bridal, hapless maid!

EL. Why this fixed gaze, O stranger! that deep groan?

OR. How all unknowing was I of mine ill!

EL. What thing hath passed to make it known to thee?

OR. The sight of thee attired with boundless woe.

EL. And yet thine eye sees little of my pain.

OR. Can aught be still more hateful to be seen?

EL. I have my dwelling with the murderers--

OR. Of whom? What evil would thy words disclose?

EL. Of him who gave me birth. I am their slave.

OR. Whose power compels thee to this sufferance?

EL. One called my mother, most unmotherly.

OR. How? by main force, or by degrading shames?

EL. By force and shames, and every kind of evil.

OR. And is there none to succour or prevent?

EL. None. Him I had, you give me here in dust.

OR. How mine eye pities thee this while, poor maid!

EL. Know now, none ever pitied me but you.

OR. None ever came whose heart like sorrow wrung.

EL. Is't possible we have some kinsman here?

OR. I will tell it, if these women here be friendly.

EL. They are. They may be trusted. Only speak.

OR. Let go yon vase, that thou may'st learn the whole.

EL. Nay, by the Gods! be not so cruel, sir!

OR. Obey me and thou shalt not come to harm.

EL. Ah, never rob me of what most I love!

OR. You must not hold it.

EL.                       O me miserable
For thee, Orestes, if I lose thy tomb!

OR. Speak no rash word. Thou hast no right to mourn.

EL. No right to mourn my brother who is gone?

OR. Such utterance belongs not to thy tongue,

EL. Oh, am I thus dishonoured of the dead?

OR. Far from dishonour. But this ne'er was thine.

EL. Is't not Orestes' body that I bear?

OR. Nay, but the idle dressing of a tale.

EL. And where is his poor body's resting-place?

OR. Nowhere. Seek not the living with the dead,

EL. My son, what saidst thou?

OR.                           Nought but what is true.

EL. Doth he yet live?

OR.                   If I have life in me.

EL. Art thou Orestes?

OR.                   Let my signet here,
That was our father's, tell thine eyes, I am.

EL. O day of days!

OR.                Time hath no happier hour.

EL. Is it thy voice?

OR.                  Hearken not otherwhere.

EL. Have my arms caught thee?

OR.                           Hold me so for aye!

EL. O dearest women, Argives of my home!
Ye see Orestes, dead in craft, but now
By that same craft delivered and preserved.

CH. We see, dear daughter, and the gladsome tear
Steals from our eye to greet the bright event.

EL. Offspring of him I loved beyond all telling!                   I 1
Ah! thou art come,--hast found me, eye to eye
Behold'st the face thou didst desire to see.

OR. True, I am here; but bide in silence still.

EL. Wherefore?

OR. Hush! speak not loud, lest one within should hearken.

EL. By ever-virgin Artemis, ne'er will I
Think worthy of my fear
This useless mass of woman-cowardice
Burdening the house within,
Not peering out of door.

OR. Yet know that women too have might in war.
Of that methinks thou hast feeling evidence.

EL. Ah me! thou hast unveiled
And thrust before my gaze
That burning load of my distress
No time will soothe, no remedy will heal.

OR. I know that too. But when we are face to face
With the evildoers,--then let remembrance work.

EL. All times alike are fit with instant pain                      I 2
Justly to mind me of that dreadful day;
Even now but hardly hath my tongue been free.

OR. Yes, that is it. Therefore preserve this boon.

EL. Whereby?

OR. Put limits to unseasonable talk.

EL. Ah! brother, who, when thou art come,
Could find it meet to exchange
Language for silence, as thou bidst me do?
Since beyond hope or thought
Was this thy sight to me.

OR. God gave me to your sight when so he willed.

EL. O heaven of grace beyond
The joy I knew but now!
If God hath brought thee to our roof,
A miracle of bounty then is here.

OR. I hate to curb the gladness of thy spirit,
But yet I fear this ecstasy of joy.

EL. Oh! after all these years,                                      II
Now thou at length hast sped
Thy dearest advent on the wished-for way,
Do not, in all this woe
Thou seest surrounding me--

OR. What means this prayer?

EL.                         Forbid me not my joy,
Nor make me lose the brightness of thy face!

OR. Deep were my wrath at him who should attempt it.

EL. Is my prayer heard?

OR.                     Why doubt it?

EL.                                   Friends, I learned
A tale beyond my thought; and hearing I restrained
My passion, voiceless in my misery,
Uttering no cry. But now
I have thee safe; now, dearest, thou art come,
With thy blest countenance, which I
Can ne'er forget, even at the worst of woe.

OR. A truce now to unnecessary words.
My mother's vileness and Aegisthus' waste,
Draining and squandering with spendthrift hand
Our patrimony, tell me not anew.
Such talk might stifle opportunity.
But teach me, as befits the present need,
What place may serve by lurking vigilance
Or sudden apparition to o'erwhelm
Our foes in the adventure of to-day.
And, when we pass within, take heedful care
Bright looks betray thee not unto our mother.
But groan as for the dire calamity
Vainly reported:--Let's achieve success,
Then with free hearts we may rejoice and laugh.

EL. Dear brother, wheresoe'er thy pleasure leads,
My will shall follow, since the joys I know,
Not from myself I took them, but from thee.
And ne'er would I consent thy slightest grief
Should win for me great gain. Ill should I then
Serve the divinity of this high hour!
Thou knowest how matters in the palace stand.
Thou hast surely heard, Aegisthus is from home,
And she, our mother, is within. Nor fear
She should behold me with a smiling face.
Mine ancient hate of her hath sunk too deep.
And from the time I saw thee, tears of joy
Will cease not. Wherefore should I stint their flow?
I, who in this thy coming have beheld
Thee dead and living? Strangely hast thou wrought
On me;--that should my father come alive,
I would not think the sight were miracle,
But sober truth. Since such thy presence, then,
Lead as thy spirit prompts. For I alone
Of two things surely had achieved one,
Noble deliverance or a noble death.

OR. Be silent; for I hear within the house
A footstep coming forth.

EL. (_loudly_).
                         Strangers, go in!
For none within the palace will reject
Your burden, nor be gladdened by the event.

_Enter the_ Old Man.

OLD M. O lost in folly and bereft of soul!
Is't that your care for life hath ebbed away,
Or were you born without intelligence,
When fallen, not near, but in the midst of ill,
And that the greatest, ye perceive it not?
Had I not watched the doors this while, your deeds
Had gone within the palace ere yourselves.
But, as things are, my care hath fenced you round.
Now, then, have done with long-protracted talk,
And this insatiable outburst of joy,
And enter, for in such attempts as these
Delay is harmful: and 'tis more than time.

OR. But how shall I find matters there within?

OLD M. Well. You are shielded by their ignorance.

OR. That means you have delivered me as dead.

OLD M. Alone of dead men thou art here above.

OR. Doth this delight them, or how went the talk?

OLD M. I will report, when all is done. Meanwhile,
Know, all is well with them, even what is evil.

EL. Who is this, brother? I beseech thee, tell.

OR. Dost not perceive?

EL.                    I cannot even imagine.

OR. Know'st not into whose hands thou gav'st me once?

EL. Whose hands? How say you?

OR.                           His, who through thy care
Conveyed me secretly to Phocis' plain.

EL. What! is this he, whom I, of all the band,
Found singly faithful in our father's death?

OR. He is that man. No more!

EL.                          O gladsome day!
Dear only saviour of our father's house,
How earnest thou hither? Art thou he indeed,
That didst preserve Orestes and myself
From many sorrows? O dear hands, kind feet,
Swift in our service,--how couldst thou so long
Be near, nor show one gleam, but didst destroy
My heart with words, hiding the loveliest deeds?
Father!--in thee methinks I see my father.
O welcome! thou of all the world to me
Most hated and most loved in one short hour.

OLD M. Enough, dear maiden! Many nights and days
Are circling hitherward, that shall reveal
In clear recountment all that came between.
  But to you two that stand beside I tell,
Now is your moment, with the Queen alone,
And none of men within; but if you pause,
Know that with others of profounder skill
You'll have to strive, more than your present foes.

OR. Then, Pylades, we need no more to dwell
On words, but enter on this act with speed,
First worshipping the holy shrines o' the Gods
That were my father's, harboured at the gate.
                              [_They pass within_. ELECTRA _remains in
                                                an attitude of prayer_

EL. O King Apollo! hear them graciously,
And hear me too, that with incessant hand
Honoured thee richly from my former store!
And now, fierce slayer, I importune thee,
And woo thee with such gifts as I can give,
Be kindly aidant to this enterprise,
And make the world take note, what meed of bane
Heaven still bestows on man's iniquity.         [ELECTRA _goes within_

CH. Lo, where the War-god moves                                      1
    With soft, sure footstep, on to his design,
    Breathing hot slaughter of an evil feud!
    Even now the inevitable hounds that track
    Dark deeds of hideous crime
    Are gone beneath the covert of the domes.
    Not long in wavering suspense shall hang
    The dreaming presage of my wistful soul.

    For lo! within is led                                            2
    With crafty tread the avenger of the shades,
    Even to his father's throne of ancient power,
    And in his hand the bright new-sharpened death!
    And Hermes, Maia's son,
    Is leading him, and hath concealed the guile
    Even to the fatal end in clouds of night.
    His time of weary waiting all is o'er.

_Re-enter_ ELECTRA.

EL. O dearest women! they are even now
About it. Only bide in silence still.

CH. What is the present scene?

EL.                            She decks the vase
For burial, and they both are standing by.

CH. And wherefore hast thou darted forth?

EL.                                       To watch
Aegisthus' coming, that he enter not
At unawares.

CLY. (_within_).
             Ah! ah! Woe for the house,
Desert of friends, and filled with hands of death!

EL. A cry within! Did ye not hear it, friends?

CH. Would I had not! I heard, and shivered through.

CLY. (_within_). Oh me! Alas, Aegisthus! where art thou?

EL. Hark! yet again that sound!

CLY. (_within_).           O son, have pity!
Pity the womb that bare thee.

EL.                           Thou hadst none
For him, nor for his father, in that day.

HALF-CH. Poor city! hapless race!                                    1
Thy destiny to-day
Wears thee away, away.
What morn shall see thy face?

CLY. (_within_).
Oh, I am smitten!

EL.                Give a second stroke,
If thou hast power.

CLY. (_within_).
                    Oh me! again, again!

EL. Would thou wert shrieking for Aegisthus too!

CH. The curse hath found, and they in earth who lie
Are living powers to-day.
Long dead, they drain away
The streaming blood of those who made them die.

_Enter_ ORESTES _and_ PYLADES.

Behold, they come, they come!
His red hand dripping as he moves
With drops of sacrifice the War-god loves.
My 'wildered heart is dumb.

EL. How is it with you, brother?

OR.                              If Apollo
Spake rightfully, the state within is well.

EL. Wretched one, is she dead?

OR.                            No more have fear
Thou shalt be slighted by thy mother's will.

CH. Cease, for I see Aegisthus near in view.

EL. In, in again, boys!

OR.                     Where do ye behold
The tyrant?

EL.         To our hand from yonder gate
He comes with beaming look.

HALF-CH. Haste, with what speed ye may,                              2
Stand on the doorway stone,
That, having thus much done,
Ye may do all to-day.

OR. Fear not: we will perform it.

EL.                               Speed ye now:
Follow your thought.

OR.                  We are already there.

EL. Leave matters here to me. All shall go well.
                                        [_Exit_ ORESTES _with_ PYLADES

CH. Few words, as if in gentleness, 'twere good
To utter in his ear,
That, eager and unware,
One step may launch him on the field of blood.

_Enter_ AEGISTHUS.

AEGISTHUS. Which of you know where are the Phocian men
Who brought the news I hear, Orestes' life
Hath suffered shipwreck in a chariot-race?
You, you I question, you in former time
So fearless! You methinks most feelingly
Can tell us, for it touches you most near.

EL. I know: assure thee. Else had I not heard
The dearest of all fortunes to my heart.

AEG. Where are the strangers then? Enlighten me.

EL. Yonder. Their hostess entertained them well.

AEG. And did they certainly report him dead?

EL. Not only so. They showed him to our sight.

AEG. May this clear evidence be mine to see?

EL. I envy not the sight that waits you there.

AEG. Against their wont thy words have given me joy.

EL. Much joy be thine, if this be joy to thee!

AEG. Silence, I say! Wide let the gates be flung!
For all the Myceneans to behold
And all in Argolis, that if but one
Hath heretofore been buoyed on empty hopes
Fixed in Orestes, seeing him now dead,
He may accept my manage, and not wait
For our stern chastisement to teach him sense.

EL. My lesson is already learnt: at length
I am schooled to labour with the stronger will.
                             [_The body of_ CLYTEMNESTRA _is disclosed
                                  under a veil:_ ORESTES _standing by_

AEG. Zeus! Divine envy surely hath laid low
The form I here behold. But if the truth
Provoke Heaven's wrath, be it unexpressed.--Unveil!
Off with all hindrance, that mine eye may see,
And I may mourn my kinsman as I should.

OR. Thyself put forth thy hand. Not mine but thine
To look and speak with kindness to this corse.

AEG. I will, for thou advisest well; but thou,
Call Clytemnestra, if she be within.     [AEGISTHUS _lifts the shroud_

OR. She is beside thee, gaze not otherwhere.

AEG. What do I see! oh!

OR.                     Why so strange? Whom fear you?

AEG. Who are the men into whose midmost toils
All hapless I am fallen?

OR.                      Ha! knowest thou not
Thou hast been taking living men for dead?[11]

AEG. I understand that saying. Woe is me!
I know, Orestes' voice addresseth me.

OR. A prophet! How wert thou so long deceived?

AEG. Undone, undone! Yet let me speak one word.

EL. Brother, by Heaven, no more! Let him not speak.
When death is certain, what do men in woe
Gain from a little time? Kill him at once!
And, killed, expose him to such burial
From dogs and vultures, as beseemeth such,
Far from our view. Nought less will solace me
For the remembrance of a life of pain.

OR. Go in and tarry not. No contest this
Of verbal question, but of life or death.

AEG. Why drive you me within? If this you do
Be noble, why must darkness hide the deed?
Why not destroy me out of hand?

OR.                             Command not!
Enter, and in the place where ye cut down
My father, thou shalt yield thy life to me.

AEG. Is there no help but this abode must see
The past and future ills of Pelops' race?

OR. Thine anyhow. That I can prophesy
With perfect inspiration to thine ear.

AEG. The skill you boast belonged not to your sire.

OR. You question and delay. Go in!

AEG.                               Lead on.

OR. Nay, go thou first.

AEG.                    That I may not escape thee?

OR. No, that thou may'st not have thy wish in death.
I may not stint one drop of bitterness.
And would this doom were given without reprieve,
If any try to act beyond the law,
To kill them. Then the wicked would be few.

LEADER OF CH. O seed of Atreus! how triumphantly
Through grief and hardness thou hast freedom found,
With full achievement in this onset crowned!

                  *       *       *       *       *

                        THE TRACHINIAN MAIDENS

                             THE PERSONS

DEANIRA, _wife of Heracles._
_An_ Attendant.
HYLLUS, _son of Heracles and Deanira_.
CHORUS _of Trachinian Maidens_.
_A_ Messenger.
LICHAS, _the Herald_.
_A_ Nurse.
_An_ Old Man.
HERACLES.
IOLE, _who does not speak_.

SCENE. Before the temporary abode of Heracles in Trachis.

This tragedy is named from the Chorus. From the subject it might have
been called 'Deanira or the Death of Heracles'.

The Centaur Nessus, in dying by the arrow of Heracles, which had been
dipped in the venom of the Hydra, persuaded the bride Deanira, whose
beauty was the cause of his death, to keep some of the blood from the
wound as a love-charm for her husband. Many years afterwards, when
Heracles was returning from his last exploit of sacking Oechalia, in
Euboea, he sent before him, by his herald Lichas, Iole, the king's
daughter, whom he had espoused. Deanira, when she had discovered this,
commissioned Lichas when he returned to present his master with a
robe, which she had anointed with the charm,--hoping by this means to
regain her lord's affection. But the poison of the Hydra did its work,
and Heracles died in agony, Deanira having already killed herself on
ascertaining what she had done. The action takes place in Trachis,
near the Mahae Gulf, where Heracles and Deanira, by permission of
Ceyx, the king of the country, have been living in exile. At the close
of the drama, Heracles, while yet alive, is carried towards his pyre
on Mount Oeta.

                        THE TRACHINIAN MAIDENS

DEANIRA. Men say,--'twas old experience gave the word,
--'No lot of mortal, ere he die, can once
Be known for good or evil.' But I know,
Before I come to the dark dwelling-place,
Mine is a lot, adverse and hard and sore.
Who yet at Pleuron, in my father's home,
Of all Aetolian women had most cause
To fear my bridal. For a river-god,
Swift Acheloues, was my suitor there
And sought me from my father in three forms;
Now in his own bull-likeness, now a serpent
Of coiling sheen, and now with manlike build
But bovine front, while from the shadowy beard
Sprang fountain-waters in perpetual spray.
Looking for such a husband, I, poor girl!
Still prayed that Death might find me, ere I knew
That nuptial.--Later, to my glad relief,
Zeus' and Alcmena's glorious offspring came,
And closed with him in conflict, and released
My heart from torment. How the fight was won
I could not tell. If any were who saw
Unshaken of dread foreboding, such may speak.
But I sate quailing with an anguished fear,
Lest beauty might procure me nought but pain,
Till He that rules the issue of all strife,
Gave fortunate end--if fortunate! For since,
Assigned by that day's conquest, I have known
The couch of Heracles, my life is spent
In one continual terror for his fate.
Night brings him, and, ere morning, some fresh toil
Drives him afar. And I have borne him seed;
Which he, like some strange husbandman that farms
A distant field, finds but at sowing time
And once in harvest. Such a weary life
Still tossed him to and fro,--no sooner home
But forth again, serving I know not whom.
  And when his glorious head had risen beyond
These labours, came the strongest of my fear.
For since he quelled the might of Iphitus,
We here in Trachis dwell, far from our home,
Dependent on a stranger, but where he
Is gone, none knoweth. Only this I know,
His going pierced my heart with pangs for him,
And now I am all but sure he bears some woe.
These fifteen months he hath sent me not one word.
And I have cause for fear. Ere he set forth
He left a scroll with me, whose dark intent
I oft pray Heaven may bring no sorrow down.

ATTENDANT. Queen Deanira, many a time ere now
Have I beheld thee with all tearful moan
Bewailing the departure of thy lord.
But, if it be permitted that a slave
Should tender counsel to the free, my voice
May venture this:--Of thy strong band of sons
Why is not one commissioned to explore
For Heracles? and why not Hyllus first,
Whom most it would beseem to show regard
For tidings of his father's happiness?
Ah! here I see him bounding home, with feet
Apt for employment! If you count me wise,
He and my words attend upon your will.

_Enter_ HYLLUS.

DE. Dear child, dear boy! even from the lowliest head
Wise counsel may come forth. This woman here,
Though a bond-maiden, hath a free-born tongue.

HYL. What word is spoken, mother? May I know?

DE. That, with thy father lost to us so long,
'Tis shame thou dost not learn his dwelling-place.

HYL. Yea, I have learnt, if one may trust report.

DE. Where art thou told his seat is fixed, my son?

HYL. 'Tis said that through the length of this past year
He wrought as bondman to a Lydian girl.

DE. Hath he borne that? Then nothing can be strange!

HYL. Well, that is over, I am told. He is free.

DE. Where is he rumoured, then, alive or dead?

HYL. In rich Euboea, besieging, as they tell,
The town of Eurytus, or offering siege.

DE. Child, hast thou heard what holy oracles
He left with me, touching that very land?

HYL. What were they, mother, for I never knew?

DE. That either he must end his being there,
Or, this one feat performed, his following time
Should grace his life with fair prosperity.
Wilt thou not then, my child, when he is held
In such a crisis of uncertain peril,
Run to his aid?--since we must perish with him,
Or owe our lasting safety to his life.

HYL. I will go, mother. Had I heard this voice
Of prophecy, long since I had been there.
Fear is unwonted for our father's lot.
But now I know, my strength shall all be spent
To learn the course of these affairs in full.

DE. Go then, my son. Though late, to learn and do
What wisdom bids, hath certainty of gain.
                                   [_Exit_ HYLLUS. DEANIRA _withdraws_

CHORUS (_entering and turning towards the East_).
    Born of the starry night in her undoing,                       I 1
    Lulled in her bosom at thy parting glow,
        O Sun! I bid thee show,
    What journey is Alcmena's child pursuing?
        What region holds him now,
    'Mong winding channels of the deep,
    Or Asian plains, or rugged Western steep?
        Declare it, thou
    Peerless in vision of thy flashing ray
    That lightens on the world with each new day.
    Sad Deanira, bride of battle-wooing[1],                        I 2
    Ne'er lets her tearful eyelids close in rest,
        But in love-longing breast,
    Like some lorn bird its desolation rueing,
        Of her great husband's way
    Still mindful, worn with harrowing fear
    Lest some new danger for him should be near,
        By night and day
    Pines on her widowed couch of ceaseless thought,
    With dread of evil destiny distraught:           [_Enter_ DEANIRA.

    For many as are billows of the South                          II 1
    Blowing unweariedly, or Northern gale,
    One going and another coming on
    Incessantly, baffling the gazer's eye,
    Such Cretan ocean of unending toil
    Cradles our Cadmus-born, and swells his fame.
      But still some power doth his foot recall
      From stumbling down to Hades' darkling hall.

    Wherefore, in censure of thy mood, I bring                    II 2
    Glad, though opposing, counsel. Let not hope
    Grow weary. Never hath a painless life
    Been cast on mortals by the power supreme
    Of the All-disposer, Cronos' son. But joy
    And sorrow visit in perpetual round
      All mortals, even as circleth still on high
      The constellation of the Northern sky.

    What lasteth in the world? Not starry night,                   III
    Nor wealth, nor tribulation; but is gone
    All suddenly, while to another soul
    The joy or the privation passeth on.
    These hopes I bid thee also, O my Queen!
    Hold fast continually, for who hath seen
    Zeus so forgetful of his own?
    How can his providence forsake his son?

DE. I see you have been told of my distress,
And that hath brought you. But my inward woe,
Be it evermore unknown to you, as now!
Such the fair garden of untrammeled ease
Where the young life grows safely. No fierce heat,
No rain, no wind disturbs it, but unharmed
It rises amid airs of peace and joy,
Till maiden turn to matron, and the night
Inherit her dark share of anxious thought,
Haunted with fears for husband or for child.
Then, imaged through her own calamity,
Some one may guess the burden of my life.
  Full many have been the sorrows I have wept,
But one above the rest I tell to-day.
When my great husband parted last from home,
He left within the house an ancient scroll
Inscribed with characters of mystic note,
Which Heracles had never heretofore,
In former labours, cared to let me see,--
As bound for bright achievement, not for death.
But now, as though his life had end, he told
What marriage-portion I must keep, what shares
He left his sons out of their father's ground:
And set a time, when fifteen moons were spent,
Counted from his departure, that even then
Or he must die, or if that date were out
And he had run beyond it, he should live
Thenceforth a painless and untroubled life.
Such by Heaven's fiat was the promised end
Of Heracles' long labours, as he said;
So once the ancient oak-tree had proclaimed
In high Dodona through the sacred Doves.
Of which prediction on this present hour
In destined order of accomplishment
The veritable issue doth depend.
And I, dear friends, while taking rest, will oft
Start from sweet slumbers with a sudden fear,
Scared by the thought, my life may be bereft
Of the best husband in the world of men.

CH. Hush! For I see approaching one in haste,
Garlanded, as if laden with good news.

_Enter_ Messenger.

MESSENGER. Queen Deanira, mine shall be the tongue
To free thee first from fear. Alcmena's child
Is living, be assured, and triumphing,
And bringing to our Gods the fruits of war.

DE. What mean'st thou, aged sir, by what thou sayest?

MESS. That soon thy husband, envied all around,
Will come, distinguished with victorious might.

DE. What citizen or stranger told thee this?

MESS. Your herald Lichas, where the oxen graze
The summer meadow, cries this to a crowd.
I, hearing, flew off hither, that being first
To bring thee word thereof, I might be sure
To win reward and gratitude from thee.

DE. And how is he not here, if all be well?

MESS. Crossed by no light impediment, my Queen.
For all the Maliac people, gathering round,
Throng him with question, that he cannot move.
But he must still the travail of each soul,
And none will be dismissed unsatisfied.
Such willing audience he unwillingly
Harangues, but soon himself will come in sight.

DE. O Zeus! who rulest Oeta's virgin wold,
At last, though late, thou hast vouchsafed us joy.
Lift up your voices, O my women! ye
Within the halls, and ye beyond the gate!
For now we reap the gladness of a ray,
That dawns unhoped for in this rumour's sound.

CHORUS
With a shout by the hearth let the palace roof ring
  From those that are dreaming of bridal, and ye,
Young men, let your voices in harmony sing
  To the God of the quiver, the Lord of the free!
And the Paean withal from the maiden band
To Artemis, huntress of many a land,
    Let it rise o'er the glad roof tree,
To Phoebus' own sister, with fire in each hand,
    And the Nymphs that her co-mates be!
My spirit soars. O sovereign of my soul!
I will accept the thrilling flute's control.             [_They dance_
    The ivy-crowned thyrsus, see!
    With Bacchic fire is kindling me,
    And turns my emulous tread
    Where'er the mazy dance may lead.
Euoi! Euoi!
O Paean! send us joy.
See, dearest Queen, behold!
Before thy gaze the event will now unfold.

DE. Think not mine eye hath kept such careless guard,
Dear maids, that I could miss this moving train.
Herald, I bid thee hail, although so late
Appearing, if thou bringest health with thee!

_Enter_ LICHAS, _with_ Captive Women.

LICHAS. A happy welcome on a happy way,
As prosperous our achievement. Meet it is
Good words should greet bright actions, mistress mine!

DE. Kind friend, first tell me what I first would know--
Shall I receive my Heracles alive?

LICH. I left him certainly alive and strong:
Blooming in health, not with disease oppressed.

DE. In Greece, or in some barbarous country? Tell!

LICH. Euboea's island hath a promontory,
Where to Cenaean Zeus he consecrates
Rich altars and the tribute of the ground.

DE. Moved by an oracle, or from some vow?

LICH. So vowed he when he conquered with the spear
The country of these women whom you see.

DE. And who, by Heaven, are they? Who was their sire?
Their case is piteous, or eludes my thought.

LICH. He took them for the service of the Gods
And his own house, when high Oechalia fell.

DE. Was't then before that city he was kept
Those endless ages of uncounted time?

LICH. Not so. The greater while he was detained
Among the Lydians, sold, as he declares,
To bondage. Nor be jealous of the word,
Since Heaven, my Queen, was author of the deed.
Enthralled so to Asian Omphale,
He, as himself avers, fulfilled his year.
The felt reproach whereof so chafed his soul,
He bound fierce curses on himself and sware
That,--children, wife and all,--he yet would bring
In captive chains the mover of this harm.
Nor did this perish like an idle word,
But, when the stain was off him, straight he drew
Allied battalions to assault the town
Of Eurytus, whom, sole of earthly powers,
He had noted as the source of his annoy,
Because, having received him in his hall
A guest of ancient days, he burst on him
With outrage of loud voice and villanous mind,
Saying, 'with his hand upon the unerring bow,
Oechalia's princes could o'ershoot his skill;
And born to bondage, he must quail beneath
His overlord'; lastly, to crown this cry,
When at a banquet he was filled with wine,
He flung him out of door. Whereat being wroth,
When Iphitus to the Tirynthian height
Followed the track where his brood-mares had strayed,
He, while the thought and eye of the man by chance
Were sundered, threw him from the tower-crowned cliff.
In anger for which deed the Olympian King,
Father of Gods and men, delivered him
To be a bond-slave, nor could brook the offence,
That of all lives he vanquished, this alone
Should have been ta'en by guile. For had he wrought
In open quittance of outrageous wrong,
Even Zeus had granted that his cause was just.
The braggart hath no favour even in Heaven.
Whence they, o'erweening with their evil tongue,
Are now all dwellers in the house of death,
Their ancient city a captive;--but these women
Whom thou beholdest, from their blest estate
Brought suddenly to taste of piteous woe,
Come to thy care. This task thy wedded lord
Ordained, and I, his faithful minister,
Seek to perform. But, for his noble self,
When with pure hands he hath done sacrifice
To his Great Father for the victory given,
Look for his coming, lady. This last word
Of all my happy speech is far most sweet.

CH. Now surety of delight is thine, my Queen,
Part by report and part before thine eye.

DE. Yea, now I learn this triumph of my lord,
Joy reigns without a rival in my breast.
This needs must run with that in fellowship.
Yet wise consideration even of good
Is flecked with fear of what reverse may come.
And I, dear friends, when I behold these maids,
Am visited with sadness deep and strange.
Poor friendless beings, in a foreign land
Wandering forlorn in homeless orphanhood!
Erewhile, free daughters of a freeborn race,
Now, snared in strong captivity for life.
O Zeus of battles, breaker of the war,
Ne'er may I see thee[2] turn against my seed
So cruelly; or, if thou meanest so,
Let me be spared that sorrow by my death!
Such fear in me the sight of these hath wrought.
Who art thou, of all damsels most distressed?
Single or child-bearing? Thy looks would say,
A maid, of no mean lineage. Lichas, tell,
Who is the stranger-nymph? Who gave her birth?
Who was her sire? Mine eye hath pitied her
O'er all, as she o'er all hath sense of woe.

LICH. What know I? Why should'st thou demand? Perchance
Not lowest in the list of souls there born.

DE. How if a princess, offspring of their King?

LICH. I cannot tell. I did not question far.

DE. Have none of her companions breathed her name?

LICH. I brought them silently. I did not hear.

DE. Yet speak it to us of thyself, poor maid!
'Tis sorrow not to know thee who thou art.

LICH. She'll ne'er untie her tongue, if she maintain
An even tenor, since nor more nor less
Would she disclose; but, poor unfortunate!
With agonizing sobs and tears she mourns
This crushing sorrow, from the day she left
Her wind-swept home. Her case is cruel, sure,--
And claims a privilege from all who feel.

DE. Well, let her go, and pass beneath the roof
In peace, as she desires; nor let fresh pain
From me be added to her previous woe.
She hath enough already. Come, away!
Let's all within at once, that thou mayest speed
Thy journey, and I may order all things here.
                    [_Exit_ LICHAS, _with_ Captives, _into the house_.
                                     DEANIRA _is about to follow them_

_Re-enter_ Messenger.

MESS. Pause first there on the threshold, till you learn
(Apart from those) who 'tis you take within,
And more besides that you yet know not of,
Which deeply imports your knowing. Of all this
I throughly am informed.

DE.                      What cause hast thou
Thus to arrest my going?

MESS.                    Stand, and hear.
Not idle was my former speech, nor this.

DE. Say, must we call them back in presence here,
Or would'st thou tell thy news to these and me?

MESS. To thee and these I may, but let those be.

DE. Well, they are gone. Let words declare thy drift.

MESS. That man, in all that he hath lately said,
Hath sinned against the truth: or now he's false,
Or else unfaithful in his first report.

DE. What? Tell me thy full meaning clearly forth.
That thou hast uttered is all mystery.

MESS. I heard this herald say, while many thronged
To hearken, that this maiden was the cause,
Why lofty-towered Oechalia and her lord
Fell before Heracles, whom Love alone
Of heavenly powers had warmed to this emprise,
And not the Lydian thraldom or the tasks
Of rigorous Omphale, nor that wild fate
Of rock-thrown Iphitus. Now he thrusts aside
The Love-god, contradicting his first tale.
  When he that was her sire could not be brought
To yield the maid for Heracles to hold
In love unrecognized, he framed erelong
A feud about some trifle, and set forth
In arms against this damsel's fatherland
(Where Eurytus, the herald said, was king)
And slew the chief her father; yea, and sacked
Their city. Now returning, as you see,
He sends her hither to his halls, no slave,
Nor unregarded, lady,--dream not so!
Since all his heart is kindled with desire.
I, O my Queen! thought meet to show thee all
The tale I chanced to gather from his mouth,
Which many heard as well as I, i' the midst
Of Trachis' market-place, and can confirm
My witness. I am pained if my plain speech
Sound harshly, but the honest truth I tell.

DE. Ah me! Where am I? Whither am I fallen?
What hidden woe have I unwarily
Taken beneath my roof? O misery!
Was she unknown, as he that brought her sware?

MESS. Nay, most distinguished both in birth and mien;
Called in her day of freedom Iole,
Eurytus' daughter,--of whose parentage,
Forsooth as ignorant, he ne'er would speak.

CH. I curse not all the wicked, but the man
Whose secret practices deform his life.

DE. Say, maidens, how must I proceed? The words
Now spoken have bewildered all my mind.

CH. Go in and question Lichas, who perchance
Will tell the truth if you but tax him home.

DE. I will; you counsel reasonably.

MESS.                               And I,
Shall I bide here till thou com'st forth? Or how?

DE. Remain. For see, without my sending for him,
He issueth from the palace of himself.

_Enter_ LICHAS.

LICH. What message must I carry to my lord?
Tell me, my Queen. I am going, as thou seest.

DE. So slow in coming, and so quickly flown,
Ere one have time to talk with thee anew!

LICH. What wouldst thou ask me? I am bent to hear.

DE. And art thou bent on truth in the reply?

LICH. By Heaven! in all that I have knowledge of.

DE. Then tell me, who is she thou brought'st with thee?

LICH. An islander. I cannot trace her stock.

MESS. Look hither, man. Who is't to whom thou speakest?

LICH. Why such a question? What is thine intent?

MESS. Nay, start not, but make answer if thou knowest.

LICH. To Deanira, Oeneus' queenly child,
Heracles' wife,--if these mine eyes be true,--
My mistress.

MESS.        Ay, that is the very word
I longed to hear thee speak. Thy mistress, sayest?

LICH. To whom I am bound.

MESS.                     Hold there! What punishment
Wilt thou accept, if thou art found to be
Faithless to her?

LICH.             I faithless! What dark speech
Hast thou contrived?

MESS.                Not I at all. 'Tis thou
Dost wrap thy thoughts i' the dark.

LICH.                               Well, I will go.
'Tis folly to have heard thee for so long.

MESS. You go not till you answer one word more.

LICH. One, or a thousand! You'll not stint, I see.

MESS. Thou knowest the captive maid thou leddest home?

LICH. I do. But wherefore ask?

MESS.                          Did you not say
That she, on whom you look with ignorant eye,
Was Iole, the daughter of the King,
Committed to your charge?

LICH.                     Where? Among whom?
What witness of such words will bear thee out?

MESS. Many and sound. A goodly company
In Trachis' market-place heard thee speak this.

LICH. Ay.
I said 'twas rumoured. But I could not give
My vague impression for advised report.

MESS. Impression, quotha! Did you not on oath
Proclaim your captive for your master's bride?

LICH. My master's bride! Dear lady, by the Gods,
Who is the stranger? for I know him not.

MESS. One who was present where he heard thee tell,
How that whole city was subdued and taken,
Not for the bondage to the Lydian girl,
But through the longing passion for this maid.

LICH. Dear lady, let the fellow be removed.
To prate with madmen is mere foolishness.

DE. Nay, I entreat thee by His name, whose fire
Lightens down Oeta's topmost glen, be not
A niggard of the truth. Thou tell'st thy tale
To no weak woman, but to one who knows
Mankind are never constant to one joy.
Whoso would buffet Love, aspires in vain.
For Love leads even Immortals at his will,
And me. Then how not others, like to me?
'Twere madness, sure, in me to blame my lord
When this hath caught him, or the woman there,
His innocent accomplice in a thing,
No shame to either, and no harm to me.
It is not so. But if from him thou learnest
The lore of falsehood, it were best unlearnt;
Or if the instruction comes of thine own thought,
Such would-be kindness doth not prove thee kind.
Then tell me all the truth. To one free-born
The name of liar is a hateful lot.
And thou canst not be hid. Thy news was heard
By many, who will tell me. If thou fearest,
Thou hast no cause--for doubtfulness is pain,
But to know all, what harm? His loves ere now
Were they not manifold? And none hath borne
Reproach or evil word from me. She shall not,
Though his new passion were as strong as death;
Since most mine eye hath pitied her, because
Her beauty was the ruin of her life,
And all unweeting, she her own bright land,
Poor hapless one! hath ravaged and enslaved.--
Let that be as it must. But for thy part,
Though false to others, be still true to me.

CH. 'Tis fairly said. Comply. Thou ne'er wilt blame
Her faithfulness, and thou wilt earn our loves.

LICH. Yea, dear my Queen, now I have seen thee hold
Thy mortal wishes within mortal bound
So meekly, I will freely tell thee all.
It is as he avers. This maiden's love,
Piercing through Heracles, was the sole cause,
Why her Oechalia, land of plenteous woe,
Was made the conquest of his spear. And he--
For I dare so far clear him--never bade
Concealment or denial. But myself,
Fearing the word might wound thy queenly heart,
Sinned, if thou count such tenderness a sin.
But now that all is known, for both your sakes,
His, and thine own no less, look favouringly
Upon the woman, and confirm the word
Thou here hast spoken in regard to her:--
For he, whose might is in all else supreme,
Is wholly overmastered by her love.

DE. Yea, so my mind is bent. I will do so.
I will not, in a bootless strife 'gainst Heaven,
Augment my misery with self-sought ill.
Come, go we in, that thou may'st bear from me
Such message as is meet, and also carry
Gifts, such as are befitting to return
For gifts new-given. Thou ought'st not to depart
Unladen, having brought so much with thee.                   [_Exeunt_

CHORUS.
        Victorious in her might,                                   I 1
        The Queen of soft delight
    Still ranges onward with triumphant sway.
        What she from Kronos' son
        And strong Poseidon won,
    And Pluto, King of Night, I durst not say.
        But who, to earn this bride,
        Came forth in sinewy pride
    To strive, or e'er the nuptial might be known
        With fearless heart I tell
        What heroes wrestled well,
    With showering blows, and dust in clouds upthrown.

        One was a river bold,                                      I 2
        Horn-crowned, with tramp fourfold,
    Bull Acheloues, Acarnania's Fear;
        And one from Bacchus' town,
        Own son of Zeus, came down,
    With brandished mace, bent bow, and barbed spear.
        Who then in battle brunt,
        Together, front to front,
    Hurled, eager both to win the beauteous prize;
        And Cypris 'mid the fray
        Alone, that dreadful day,
    Sate umpire, holding promise in her eyes.

    Then clashed the fist, then clanged the bow;                    II
    Then horns gave crashing blow for blow,
        Whilst, as they clung,
    The twining hip throw both essay
    And hurtling foreheads' fearful play,
        And groans from each were wrung.

    But the tender fair one far away
        Sate watching with an eye of piteous cheer
    (A mother's heart will heed the thing I say,)
      Till won by him who freed her from her fear.
    Sudden she leaves her mother's gentle side,
    Borne through the waste, our hero's tender bride.

_Enter_ DEANIRA.

DE. Dear friends, while yonder herald in the house
Holds converse with the captives ere he go,
I have stol'n forth to you, partly to tell
The craft my hand hath compassed, and in part,
To crave your pity for my wretchedness.
For I have taken to my hearth a maid,--
And yet, methinks, no maiden any more,
Like some fond shipmaster, taking on board
A cargo fraught with treason to my heart.
And now we two are closed in one embrace
Beneath one coverlet. Such generous meed
For faith in guarding home this dreary while
Hath the kind Heracles our trusty spouse,
Sent in return! Yet, oft as he hath caught
This same distemperature, I know not how
To harbour indignation against him.
But who that is a woman could endure
To dwell with her, both married to one man?
One bloom is still advancing, one doth fade.
The budding flower is cropped, the full-blown head
Is left to wither, while love passeth by
Unheeding. Wherefore I am sore afraid
He will be called my husband, but her mate,
For she is younger. Yet no prudent wife
Would take this angerly, as I have said.
But, dear ones, I will tell you of a way,
Whereof I have bethought me, to prevent
This heart-break. I had hidden of long time
In a bronze urn the ancient Centaur's gift,
Which I, when a mere girl, culled from the wound
Of hairy-breasted Nessus in his death.
He o'er Evenus' rolling depths, for hire,
Ferried wayfarers on his arm, not plying
Or rowing-boat, or canvas-winged bark.
Who, when with Heracles, a new-made bride,
I followed by my father's sending forth,
Shouldering me too, in the mid-stream, annoyed
With wanton touch. And I cried out; and he,
Zeus' son, turned suddenly, and from his bow
Sent a wing'd shaft, that whizzed into his chest
To the lungs. Then the weird Thing, with dying voice
Spake to me:--'Child of aged Oeneues,
Since thou wert my last burden, thou shalt win
Some profit from mine act, if thou wilt do
What now I bid thee. With a careful hand
Collect and bear away the clotted gore
That clogs my wound, e'en where the monster snake
Had dyed the arrow with dark tinct of gall;
And thou shalt have this as a charm of soul
For Heracles, that never through the eye
Shall he receive another love than thine.'
Whereof bethinking me, for since his death
I kept it in a closet locked with care,
I have applied it to this robe, with such
Addition as his living voice ordained.--
The thing is done. No criminal attempts
Could e'er be mine. Far be they from my thought,
As I abhor the woman who conceives them!
But if by any means through gentle spells
And bonds on Heracles' affection, we
May triumph o'er this maiden in his heart,
My scheme is perfected. Unless you deem
Mine action wild. If so, I will desist.

CH. If any ground of confidence approve
Thine act, we cannot check thy counsel here.

DE. My confidence is grounded on belief,
Though unconfirmed as yet by actual proof.

CH. Well, do it and try. Assurance cannot come
Till action bring experience after it.

DE. The truth will soon be known. The man e'en now
Is coming forth, and quickly will be there.
Screen ye but well my counsel. Doubtful deeds,
Wrapt close, will not deliver us to shame.

_Enter_ LICHAS.

LICH. Daughter of Oeneus, tell me thy commands.
Already time rebukes our tardiness.

DE. Even that hath been my care, Lichas, while thou
Wert talking to the stranger-maids within,
That thou shouldst take for me this finewoven web,
A present from these fingers to my lord.
And when thou giv'st it, say that none of men
Must wear it on his shoulders before him;
And neither light of sun may look upon it,
Nor holy temple-court, nor household flame,
Till he in open station 'fore the Gods
Display it on a day when bulls are slaughtered.
So once I vowed, that should I ever see
Or hear his safe return, I would enfold
His glorious person in this robe, and show
To all the Gods in doing sacrifice
Him a fresh worshipper in fresh array.--
The truth hereof he will with ease descry
Betokened on this treasure-guarding seal.--
Now go, and be advised, of this in chief,
To act within thine office; then of this,
To bear thee so, that from his thanks and mine
Meeting in one, a twofold grace may spring.

LICH. If this my Hermes-craft be firm and sure,
Then never will I fail thee, O my Queen!
But I will show the casket as it is
To whom I bear it, and in faithfulness
Add all the words thou sendest in fit place.

DE. Go, then, at once. Thou hast full cognizance
How things within the palace are preserved?

LICH. I know, and will declare. There is no flaw.

DE. Methinks thou knowest too, for thou hast seen,
My kind reception of the stranger-maid?

LICH. I saw, and was amazed with heart-struck joy.

DE. What more is there to tell?--Too rash, I fear,
Were thy report of longing on my part,
Till we can learn if we be longed for there.       [_Exeunt severally_

CHORUS.
        O ye that haunt the strand                                 I 1
        Where ships in quiet land
Near Oeta's height and the warm rock-drawn well,
And ye round Melis' inland gulf who dwell,
Worshipping her who wields the golden wand,--
(There Hellas' wisest meet in council strong):
        Soon shall the flute arise
        With sound of glad surprise,
Thrilling your sense with no unwelcome song,
But tones that to the harp of Heavenly Muse belong.

        Zeus' and Alcmena's son,--                                 I 2
        All deeds of glory done,--
Speeds now triumphant to his home, whom we
Twelve weary months of blind expectancy
Lost in vast distance, from our country gone.
While, sadly languishing, his loving wife,
        Still flowing down with tears,
        Pined with unnumbered fears.
But Ares, lately stung to furious strife,
Frees him for ever[3] from the toilsome life.

        O let him come to-day!                                      II
        Ne'er may his vessel stay,
But glide with feathery sweep of many an oar,
Till from his altar by yon island shore
Even to our town he wind his prosperous way,
        In mien returning mild,
        And inly reconciled,
With that anointing in his heart ingrained,
Which the dark Centaur's wizard lips ordained.

_Enter_ DEANIRA.

DE. O how I fear, my friends, lest all too far
I have ventured in my action of to-day!

CH. What ails thee, Deanira, Oeneus' child?

DE. I know not, but am haunted by a dread,
Lest quickly I be found to have performed
A mighty mischief, through bright hopes betrayed.

CH. Thou dost not mean thy gift to Heracles?

DE. Indeed I do. Now I perceive how fond
Is eagerness, where actions are obscure.

CH. Tell, if it may be told, thy cause of fear.

DE. A thing is come to pass, which should I tell,
Will strike you with strange wonder when you learn.
For, O my friends, the stuff wherewith I dressed
That robe, a flock of soft and milkwhite wool,
Is shrivelled out of sight, not gnawn by tooth
Of any creature here, but, self-consumed,
Frittered and wasting on the courtyard-stones.
  To let you know the circumstance at full,
I will speak on. Of all the Centaur-Thing,
When labouring in his side with the fell point
O' the shaft, enjoined me, I had nothing lost,
But his vaticination in my heart
Remained indelible, as though engraved
With pen of iron upon brass. 'Twas thus:--
I was to keep this unguent closely hid
In dark recesses, where no heat of fire
Or warming ray might reach it, till with fresh
Anointing I addressed it to an end.
So I had done. And now this was to do,
Within my chamber covertly I spread
The ointment with piece of wool, a tuft
Pulled from a home-bred sheep; and, as ye saw,
I folded up my gift and packed it close
In hollow casket from the glaring sun.
But, entering in, a fact encounters me
Past human wit to fathom with surmise.
For, as it happened, I had tossed aside
The bit of wool I worked with, carelessly,
Into the open daylight, 'mid the blaze
Of Helios' beam. And, as it kindled warm,
It fell away to nothing, crumbled small,
Like dust in severing wood by sawyers strewn.
So, on the point of vanishing, it lay.
But, from the place where it had lain, brake forth
A frothy scum in clots of seething foam,
Like the rich draught in purple vintage poured
From Bacchus' vine upon the thirsty ground.
And I, unhappy, know not toward what thought
To turn me, but I see mine act is dire.
For wherefore should the Centaur, for what end,
Show kindness to the cause for whom he died?
That cannot be. But seeking to destroy
His slayer, he cajoled me. This I learn
Too late, by sad experience, for no good.
And, if I err not now, my hapless fate
Is all alone to be his murderess.
For, well I know, the shaft that made the wound
Gave pain to Cheiron, who was more than man;
And wheresoe'er it falls, it ravageth
All the wild creatures of the world. And now
This gory venom blackly spreading bane
From Nessus' angry wound, must it not cause
The death of Heracles? I think it must.
  Yet my resolve is firm, if aught harm him,
My death shall follow in the self-same hour.
She cannot bear to live in evil fame,
Who cares to have a nature pure from ill.

CH. Horrid mischance must needs occasion fear.
But Hope is not condemned before the event.

DE. In ill-advised proceeding not even Hope
Remains to minister a cheerful mind.

CH. Yet to have erred unwittingly abates
The fire of wrath; and thou art in this case.

DE. So speaks not he who hath a share of sin,
But who is clear of all offence at home.

CH. 'Twere well to say no more, unless thou hast aught
To impart to thine own son: for he is here,
Who went erewhile to find his father forth.

HYLLUS _(re-entering)_.
O mother, mother!
I would to heaven one of three things were true:
Either that thou wert dead, or, living, wert
No mother to me, or hadst gained a mind
Furnished with better thoughts than thou hast now!

DE. My son! what canst thou so mislike in me?

HYL. I tell thee thou this day hast been the death
Of him that was thy husband and my sire.

DE. What word hath passed thy lips? my child, my child!

HYL. A word that must be verified. For who
Can make the accomplished fact as things undone?

DE. Alas, my son! what saidst thou? Who hath told
That I have wrought a deed so full of woe?

HYL. 'Twas I myself that saw with these mine eyes
My father's heavy state:--no hearsay word.

DE. And where didst thou come near him and stand by?

HYL. Art thou to hear it? On, then, with my tale!
When after sacking Eurytus' great city
He marched in triumph with first-fruits of war,--
There is a headland, last of long Euboea,
Surf-beat Cenaeum,--where to his father Zeus
He dedicates high altars and a grove.
There first I saw him, gladdened from desire.
And when he now addressed him to the work
Of various sacrifice, the herald Lichas
Arrived from home, bearing thy fatal gift,
The deadly robe: wherewith invested straight,
As thou hadst given charge, he sacrificed
The firstlings of the spoil, twelve bulls entire,
Each after each. But the full count he brought
Was a clear hundred of all kinds of head.
  Then the all-hapless one commenced his prayer
In solemn gladness for the bright array.
But presently, when from the holy things,
And from the richness of the oak-tree core,
There issued flame mingled with blood, a sweat
Rose on his flesh, and close to every limb
Clung, like stone-drapery from the craftsman's hand,
The garment, glued unto his side. Then came
The tearing pangs within his bones, and then
The poison feasted like the venomed tooth
Of murderous basilisk.--When this began,
He shouted on poor Lichas, none to blame
For thy sole crime, 'What guile is here, thou knave?
What was thy fraud in fetching me this robe?'
He, all-unknowing, in an evil hour
Declared his message, that the gift was thine.
Whereat the hero, while the shooting spasm
Had fastened on the lungs, seized him by the foot
Where the ankle turns i' the socket, and, with a thought,
Hurl'd on a surf-vex'd reef that showed i' the sea:
And rained the grey pulp from the hair, the brain
Being scattered with the blood. Then the great throng
Saddened their festival with piteous wail
For one in death and one in agony.
And none had courage to approach my sire,--
Convulsed upon the ground, then tossed i' the air
With horrid yells and crying, till the cliffs
Echoed round, the mountain-promontories
Of Locris, and Euboea's rugged shore.
Wearied at length with flinging on the earth,
And shrieking oft with lamentable cry,
Cursing the fatal marriage with thyself
The all-wretched, and the bond to Oeneus' house,
That prize that was the poisoner of his peace,
He lifted a wild glance above the smoke
That hung around, and 'midst the crowd of men
Saw me in tears, and looked on me and said,
'O son, come near; fly not from my distress,
Though thou shouldst be consumed in my death,
But lift and bear me forth; and, if thou mayest,
Set me where no one of mankind shall see me.
But if thy heart withhold thee, yet convey me
Out of this land as quickly as ye may.
Let me not die where I am now.' We then,
Thus urgently commanded, laid him down
Within our bark, and hardly to this shore
Rowed him convulsed and roaring.--Presently,
He will appear, alive or lately dead.
  Such, mother, is the crime thou hast devised
And done against our sire, wherefore let Right
And Vengeance punish thee!--May I pray so?
I may: for thou absolv'st me by thy deed,
Thou that hast slain the noblest of the Earth,
Thy spouse, whose like thou ne'er wilt see again.     [_Exit_ DEANIRA.

CH. Why steal'st thou forth in silence? Know'st thou not
Thy silence argues thine accuser's plea?

HYL. Let her go off. Would that a sudden flood
Might sweep her far and swiftly from mine eye!
Why fondle vainly the fair-sounding name
Of mother, when her acts are all unmotherly?
Let her begone for me: and may she find
Such joy as she hath rendered to my sire!               [_Exit_ HYLLUS

CHORUS.
        See where falls the doom, of old                           I 1
        By the unerring Voice foretold,--
        'When twelve troublous years have rolled,
        Then shall end your long desire:
        Toil on toil no more shall tire
        The offspring of the Eternal Sire.'
        Lo! the destined Hour is come!
        Lo! it hath brought its burden home.
    For when the eyes have looked their last
    How should sore labour vex again?
    How, when the powers of will and thought are past,
    Should life be any more enthralled to pain?

        And if Nessus' withering shroud,                           I 2
        Wrought by destiny and craft,
        Steep him in a poisonous cloud.
        Steaming from the venomed shaft,
        Which to Death in hideous lair
        The many-wreathed Hydra bare,
        How shall he another day
        Feel the glad warmth of Helios' ray?--
    Enfolded by the Monster-Thing
    Of Lerna, while the cruel sting
    Of the shagg'd Centaur's murderous-guileful tongue
    Breaks forth withal to do him painful wrong.

        And she, poor innocent, who saw                           II 1
          Checkless advancing to the gate
          A mighty harm unto her state,--
    This rash young bridal without fear of law,--
    Gave not her will to aught that caused this woe,
      But since it came through that strange mind's conceiving,--
      That ruined her in meeting,--deeply grieving,
    She mourns with dewy tears in tenderest flow.
    The approaching hour appeareth great with woe:
    Some guile-born misery doth Fate foreshow.

        The springs of sorrow are unbound,                        II 2
          And such an agony disclose,
          As never from the hands of foes
    To afflict the life of Heracles was found.
    O dark with battle-stains, world-champion spear,
      That from Oechalia's highland leddest then
      This bride that followed swiftly in thy train,
    How fatally overshadowing was thy fear!
    But these wild sorrows all too clearly come
    From Love's dread minister[4], disguised and dumb.

CH. 1.
    Am I a fool, or do I truly hear
    Lament new-rising from our master's home?
    Tell!

CH. 2.
    Clearly from within a wailing voice
    Peals piteously. The house hath some fresh woe.

CH. 3.
    Mark!
    How strangely, with what cloud upon her brow,
    Yon aged matron with her tidings moves!

_Enter_ Nurse.

NURSE. Ah! mighty, O my daughters! was the grief
Sprung from the gift to Heracles conveyed!

LEADER OF CH. What new thing is befallen? Why speak'st thou so?

NUR. Our Queen hath found her latest journey's end.
Even now she is gone, without the help of feet.

CH. Not dead?

NUR.          You know the whole.

CH.                               Dead! hapless Queen!

NUR. The truth hath twice been told.

CH.                                  O tell us how!
What was her death, poor victim of dire woe?

NUR. Most ruthless was the deed.

CH.                              Say, woman, say!
What was the sudden end?

NUR.                     Herself she slew.

CH. What rage, what madness, clutched
The mischief-working brand?
How could her single thought
Contrive the accomplishment of death on death?

NUR. Chill iron stopped the sources of her breath.

CH. And thou, poor helpless crone, didst see this done?

NUR. Yea, I stood near and saw.

CH.                             How was it? Tell!

NUR. With her own hand this violence was given.

CH. What do I hear?

NUR.                The certainty of truth.

CH. A child is come,
From this new bridal that hath rushed within,
A fresh-born Fury of woe!

NUR. Too true. But hadst thou been at hand to see
Her action, pity would have wrung thy soul.

CH. Could this be ventured by a woman's hand?

NUR. Ay, and in dreadful wise, as thou shalt hear.
When all alone she had gone within the gate,
And passing through the court beheld her boy
Spreading the couch that should receive his sire,
Ere he returned to meet him,--out of sight
She hid herself, and fell at the altar's foot,
And loudly cried that she was left forlorn;
And, taking in her touch each household thing
That formerly she used, poor lady, wept
O'er all; and then went ranging through the rooms,
Where, if there caught her eye the well-loved form
Of any of her household, she would gaze
And weep aloud, accusing her own fate
And her abandoned lot, childless henceforth!
When this was ended, suddenly I see her
Fly to the hero's room of genial rest.
With unsuspected gaze o'ershadowed near,
I watched, and saw her casting on the bed
The finest sheets of all. When that was done,
She leapt upon the couch where they had lain
And sat there in the midst. And the hot flood
Burst from her eyes before she spake:--'Farewell,
My bridal bed, for never more shalt thou
Give me the comfort I have known thee give.'
Then with tight fingers she undid her robe,
Where the brooch lay before the breast, and bared
All her left arm and side. I, with what speed
Strength ministered, ran forth to tell her son
The act she was preparing. But meanwhile,
Ere we could come again, the fatal blow
Fell, and we saw the wound. And he, her boy,
Seeing, wept aloud. For now the hapless youth
Knew that himself had done this in his wrath,
Told all too late i' the house, how she had wrought
Most innocently, from the Centaur's wit.
So now the unhappy one, with passionate words
And cries and wild embracings of the dead,
Groaned forth that he had slain her with false breath
Of evil accusation, and was left
Orphaned of both, his mother and his sire.
  Such is the state within. What fool is he
That counts one day, or two, or more to come?
To-morrow is not, till the present day
In fair prosperity have passed away.                           [_Exit_

CHORUS.
      Which shall come first in my wail,                           I 1
      Which shall be last to prevail,
    Is a doubt that will never be done.

      Trouble at home may be seen,                                 I 2
      Trouble is looked for with teen;
    And to have and to look for are one.

      Would some fair wind                                        II 1
    But waft me forth to roam
  Far from the native region of my home,
  Ere death me find, oppressed with wild affright
  Even at the sudden sight
  Of him, the valiant son of Zeus most High!
  Before the house, they tell, he fareth nigh,
  A wonder beyond thought,
  With torment unapproachable distraught.

  Hark! ...                                                       II 2
  The cause then of my cry
  Was coming all too nigh:
  (Doth the clear nightingale lament for nought?)
  Some step of stranger folk is this way brought.
  As for a friend they love
  Heavy and slow with noiseless feet they move.
  Which way? which way? Ah me! behold him come.
  His pallid lips are dumb.
  Dead, or at rest in sleep? What shall I say?
                     [HERACLES _is brought in on a litter, accompanied
                                           by_ HYLLUS _and an_ Old Man

HYL. Oh, woe is me!
  My father, piteous woe for thee!
  Oh, whither shall I turn my thought! Ah me!

OLD M. Hush! speak not, O my child,
  Lest torment fierce and wild
  Rekindle in thy father's rugged breast,
  And break this rest
  Where now his life is held at point to fall.
  With firm lips clenched refrain thy voice through all.

HYL. Yet tell me, doth he live,
  Old sir?

OLD M. Wake not the slumberer,
  Nor kindle and revive
  The terrible recurrent power of pain,
  My son!

HYL. My foolish words are done,
  But my full heart sinks 'neath the heavy strain.

HERACLES. O Father, who are these?
  What countrymen? Where am I? What far land
  Holds me in pain that ceaseth not? Ah me!
  Again that pest is rending me. Pain, pain!

OLD M. Now thou may'st know
  'Twas better to have lurked in silent shade
  And not thus widely throw
  The slumber from his eyelids and his head.

HYL. I could not brook
  All speechless on his misery to look.

MONODY.

HER. O altar on the Euboean strand,
  High-heaped with offerings from my hand,
  What meed for lavish gifts bestowed
  From thy new sanctuary hath flowed!
  Father of Gods! thy cruel power
  Hath foiled me with an evil blight.
  Ah! would mine eyes had closed in night
  Ere madness in a fatal hour
  Had burst upon them with a blaze,
  No help or soothing once allays!

  What hand to heal, what voice to charm,
  Can e'er dispel this hideous harm?
  Whose skill save thine,
  Monarch Divine?
  Mine eyes, if such I saw,
  Would hail him from afar with trembling awe.
  Ah! ah!
  O vex me not, touch me not, leave me to rest,
  To sleep my last sleep on Earth's gentle breast.
  You touch me, you press me, you turn me again,
  You break me, you kill me! O pain! O pain!
  You have kindled the pang that had slumbered still.
  It comes, it hath seized me with tyrannous will!

  Where are ye, men, whom over Hellas wide
  This arm hath freed, and o'er the ocean-tide,
  And through rough brakes, from every monstrous thing?
  Yet now in mine affliction none will bring
  A sword to aid, a fire to quell this fire,
  O most unrighteous! nor to my desire
  Will come and quench the hateful life I hold
  With mortal stroke! Ah! is there none so bold?

OLD M. Son of our hero, this hath mounted past
  My feeble force to cope with. Take him thou!
  Fresher thine eye and more the hope thou hast
  Than mine to save him.

HYL.                     I support him now
  Thus with mine arm: but neither fleshly vest
  Nor inmost spirit can I lull to rest
  From torture. None may dream
  To wield this power, save he, the King supreme.

HER. Son!
  Where art thou to lift me and hold me aright?
  It tears me, it kills me, it rushes in might,
  This cruel, devouring, unconquered pain
  Shoots forth to consume me. Again! again!
  O Fate! O Athena!--O son, at my word
  Have pity and slay me with merciful sword!

  Pity thy father, boy; with sharp relief
  Smite on my breast, and heal the wrathful grief
  Wherewith thy mother, God-abandoned wife,
  Hath wrought this ruin on her husband's life.
  O may I see her falling, even so
  As she hath thrown me, to like depth of woe!
  Sweet Hades, with swift death,
  Brother of Zeus, release my suffering breath!

CH. Horror hath caught me as I hear this, woe,
Racking our mighty one with mightier pain.

HER. Many hot toils and hard beyond report,
With sturdy thews and sinews I have borne,
But no such labour hath the Thunderer's wife
Or sour Eurystheus ever given, as this,
Which Oeneus' daughter of the treacherous eye
Hath fastened on my back, this amply-woven
Net of the Furies, that is breaking me.
For, glued unto my side, it hath devoured
My flesh to the bone, and lodging in the lungs
It drains the vital channels, and hath drunk
The fresh life-blood, and ruins all my frame,
Foiled in the tangle of a viewless bond.
Yet me nor War-host, nor Earth's giant brood,
Nor Centaur's monstrous violence could subdue,
Nor Hellas, nor the Stranger, nor all lands
Where I have gone, cleansing the world from harms.
But a soft woman without manhood's strain
Alone and weaponless hath conquered me.
Son, let me know thee mine true-born, nor rate
Thy mother's claim beyond thy sire's, but bring
Thyself from out the chambers to my hand
Her body that hath borne thee, that my heart
May be assured, if lesser than my pain
It will distress thee to behold her limbs
With righteous torment agonized and torn.
Nay, shrink not, son, but pity me, whom all
May pity--me, who, like a tender girl,
Am heard to weep aloud! This none could say
He knew in me of old; for, murmuring not,
I went with evil fortune, silent still.
Now, such a foe hath found the woman in me!
  Ay, but come near; stand by me, and behold
What cause I have for crying. Look but here!
Here is the mystery unveiled. O see!
Ye people, gaze on this poor quivering flesh,
Look with compassion on my misery!
Ah me!
Ah! ah! Again!
Even now the hot convulsion of disease
Shoots through my side, and will not let me rest
From this fierce exercise of wearing woe.
Take me, O King of Night!
O sudden thunderstroke.
Smite me! O sire, transfix me with the dart
Of thy swift lightning! Yet again that fang
Is tearing; it hath blossomed forth anew,
It soars up to the height!

                           O breast and back,
O shrivelling arms and hands, ye are the same
That crushed the dweller of the Nemean wild,
The lion unapproachable and rude,
The oxherd's plague, and Hydra of the lake
Of Lerna, and the twi-form prancing throng
Of Centaurs,--insolent, unsociable,
Lawless, ungovernable:--the tusked pest
Of Erymanthine glades; then underground
Pluto's three-headed cur--a perilous fear,
Born from the monster-worm; and, on the verge
Of Earth, the dragon, guarding fruits of gold.
These toils and others countless I have tried,
And none hath triumphed o'er me. But to-day,
Jointless and riven to tatters, I am wrecked
Thus utterly by imperceptible woe;
I, proudly named Alcmena's child, and His
Who reigns in highest heaven, the King supreme!
  Ay, but even yet, I tell ye, even from here,
Where I am nothingness and cannot move,
She who hath done this deed shall feel my power.
Let her come near, that, mastered by my might,
She may have this to tell the world, that, dying,
As living, I gave punishment to wrong.

CH. O Hellas, how I grieve for thy distress!
How thou wilt mourn in losing him we see!

HYL. My father, since thy silence gives me leave,
Still hear me patiently, though in thy pain!
For my request is just. Lend me thy mind
Less wrathfully distempered than 'tis now;
Else thou canst never know, where thou art keen
With vain resentment and with vain desire

HER. Speak what thou wilt and cease, for I in pain
Catch not the sense of thy mysterious talk

HYL. I come to tell thee of my mother's case,
And her involuntary unconscious fault.

HER. Base villain! hast thou breathed thy mother's name,
Thy father's murderess, in my hearing too!

HYL. Her state requires not silence, but full speech.

HER. Her faults in former time might well be told.

HYL. So might her fault to day, couldst thou but know.

HER. Speak, but beware base words disgrace thee not.

HYL. List! She is dead even now with new-given wound.

HER. By whom? Thy words flash wonder through my woe.

HYL. Her own hand slaughtered her, no foreign stroke.

HER. Wretch! to have reft this office from my hands.

HYL. Even your rash spirit were softened, if you knew.

HER. This bodes some knavery. But declare thy thought!

HYL. She erred with good intent. The whole is said.

HER. Good, O thou villain, to destroy thy sire!

HYL. When she perceived that marriage in her home,
She erred, supposing to enchain thy love.

HER. Hath Trachis a magician of such might?

HYL. Long since the Centaur Nessus moved her mind
To work this charm for heightening thy desire.

HER. O horror, thou art here! I am no more.
My day is darkened, boy! Undone, undone!
I see our plight too plainly. woe is me!
Come, O my son! --thou hast no more a father,--
Call to me all the brethren of thy blood,
And poor Alcmena, wedded all in vain
Unto the Highest, that ye may hear me tell
With my last breath what prophecies I know.

HYL. Thy mother is not here, but by the shore
Of Tiryns hath obtained a dwelling-place;
And of thy sons, some she hath with her there,
And some inhabit Thebe's citadel.
But we who are with thee, sire, if there be aught
That may by us be done, will hear, and do.

HER. Then hearken thou unto this task, and show
If worthily thou art reputed mine.
Now is time to prove thee. My great father
Forewarned me long ago that I should die
By none who lived and breathed, but from the will
Of one now dwelling in the house of death.
And so this Centaur, as the voice Divine
Then prophesied, in death hath slain me living.
And in agreement with that ancient word
I now interpret newer oracles
Which I wrote down on going within the grove
Of the hill-roving and earth-couching Selli,--
Dictated to me by the mystic tongue
Innumerous, of my Father's sacred tree;
Declaring that my ever instant toils
Should in the time that new hath being and life
End and release me. And I look'd for joy.
But the true meaning plainly was my death.--
No labour is appointed for the dead.--
Then, since all argues one event, my son,
Once more thou must befriend me, and not wait
For my voice goading thee, but of thyself
Submit and second my resolve, and know
Filial obedience for thy noblest rule.

HYL. I will obey thee, father, though my heart
Sinks heavily in approaching such a theme.

HER. Before aught else, lay thy right hand in mine.

HYL. Why so intent on this assurance, sire?

HER. Give it at once and be not froward, boy.

HYL. There is my hand: I will gainsay thee nought.

HER. Swear by the head of him who gave me life.

HYL. Tell me the oath, and I will utter it.

HER. Swear thou wilt do the thing I bid thee do.

HYL. I swear, and make Zeus witness of my troth.

HER. But if you swerve, pray that the curse may come.

HYL. It will not come for swerving:--but I pray.

HER. Now, dost thou know on Oeta's topmost height
The crag of Zeus?

HYL.              I know it, and full oft
Have stood there sacrificing.

HER.                          Then even there,
With thine own hand uplifting this my body,
Taking what friends thou wilt, and having lopped
Much wood from the deep-rooted oak and rough
Wild olive, lay me on the gathered pile,
And burn all with the touch of pine-wood flame.
Let not a tear of mourning dim thine eye;
But silent, with dry gaze, if thou art mine,
Perform it. Else my curse awaits thee still
To weigh thee down when I am lost in night.

HYL. How cruel, O my father, is thy tongue!

HER. 'Tis peremptory. Else, if thou refuse,
Be called another's and be no more mine.

HYL. Alas that thou shouldst challenge me to this,
To be thy murderer, guilty of thy blood!

HER. Not I, in sooth: but healer of my pain,
And sole preserver from a life of woe.

HYL. How can it heal to burn thee on the pyre?

HER. If this act frighten thee, perform the rest.

HYL. Mine arms shall not refuse to carry thee.

HER. And wilt thou gather the appointed wood?

HYL. So my hand fire it not. In all but this,
Not scanting labour, I will do my part.

HER. Enough. 'Tis well. And having thus much given
Add one small kindness to a list so full.

HYL. How great soe'er it were, it should be done.

HER. The maid of Eurytus thou knowest, I ween.

HYL. Of Iole thou speak'st, or I mistake.

HER. Of her. This then is all I urge, my son.
When I am dead, if thou wouldst show thy duty,
Think of thine oath to me, and, on my word,
Make her thy wife: nor let another man
Take her, but only thou; since she hath lain
So near this heart. Obey me, O my boy!
And be thyself the maker of this bond.
To spurn at trifles after great things given,
Were to confound the meed already won.

HYL. Oh, anger is not right, when men are ill!
But who could bear to see thee in this mind?

HER. You murmur, as you meant to disobey.

HYL. How can I do it, when my mother's death
And thy sad state sprang solely from this girl?
Who, not possessed with furies, could choose this?
Far better, father, for me too to die,
Than to live still with my worst enemy.

HER. This youth withdraws his reverence in my death.
But, if thou yield'st not to thy father's best,
The curse from Heaven shall dog thy footsteps still.

HYL. Ah! thou wilt tell me that thy pain is come.

HER. Yea, for thou wak'st the torment that had slept.

HYL. Ay me! how cross and doubtful is my way!

HER. Because you will reject your father's word.

HYL. Must I be taught impiety from thee?

HER. It is not impious to content my heart.

HYL. Then you require this with an absolute will?

HER. And bid Heaven witness to my strong command.

HYL. Then I will do it, for the act is thine.
I will not cast it off. Obeying thee,
My sire, the Gods will ne'er reprove my deed.

HER. Thou endest fairly. Now, then, O my son,
Add the performance swiftly, that, before
Some spasm or furious onset of my pain
Have seized me, ye may place me on the pyre.
Come, loiter not, but lift me. Now my end
Is near, the last cessation of my woe.

HYL. Since thy command is urgent, O my sire!
We tarry not, but bear thee to the pyre.

HER. Stubborn heart, ere yet again
    Wakes the fierce rebound of pain,
    While the evil holds aloof,
    Thou, with bit of diamond proof,
    Curb thy cry, with forced will
    Seeming to do gladly still!

HYL. Lift him, men, and hate not me
    For the evil deeds ye see,
    Since the Heavens' relentless sway
    Recks not of the righteous way.
    He who gave life and doth claim
    From his seed a Father's name
    Can behold this hour of blame.
    Though the future none can tell,
    Yet the present is not well:
    Sore for him who bears the blow,
    Sad for us who feel his woe,
    Shameful to the Gods, we trow.

CH. Maidens from the palace-hall,
    Come ye forth, too, at our call!
    Mighty deaths beyond belief,
    Many an unknown form of grief,
    Ye have seen to-day; and nought
    But the power of Zeus hath wrought.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                             PHILOCTETES

                             THE PERSONS

ODYSSEUS.
NEOPTOLEMUS.
CHORUS _of Mariners_.
PHILOCTETES.
Messenger, _disguised as a Merchantman_.
HERACLES, _appearing from the sky_.

SCENE. A desert shore of the Island of Lemnos.

It was fated that Troy should be taken by Neoptolemus, the son of
Achilles, assisted by the bow of Heracles in the hands of Philoctetes.

Now Philoctetes had been rejected by the army because of a trouble in
his foot, which made his presence with them insufferable; and had been
cast away by Odysseus on the island of Lemnos.

But when the decree of fate was revealed by prophecy, Odysseus
undertook to bring Philoctetes back, and took with him Neoptolemus,
whose ambition could only be gratified through the return of
Philoctetes with the bow.

Philoctetes was resolutely set against returning, and at the opening
of the drama Neoptolemus is persuaded by Odysseus to take him with
guile.

But when Philoctetes appears, the youth's ingenuous nature is so
wrought upon through pity and remorse, that his sympathy and native
truthfulness at length overcome his ambition.

When the inward sacrifice is complete, Heracles appears from heaven,
and by a few words changes the mind of Philoctetes, so that all ends
well.

                             PHILOCTETES

ODYSSEUS. NEOPTOLEMUS.

ODYSSEUS. This coast of sea-girt Lemnos, where we stand,
Is uninhabited, untrodden of men.
And here, O noble son of noblest sire,
Achilles-born Neoptolemus, I erewhile,--
Ordered by those who had command,--cast forth
Trachinian Philoctetes, Poeas' son,
His foot dark-dripping with a rankling wound;
When with wild cries, that frighted holy rest,
Filling the camp, he troubled every rite,
That none might handle sacrifice, or pour
Wine-offering, but his noise disturbed our peace.
  But why these words? No moment this for talk,
Lest he discern my coming, and I lose
The scheme, wherewith I think to catch him soon.
Now most behoves thy service, to explore
This headland for a cave with double mouth,
Whose twofold aperture, on wintry days,
Gives choice of sunshine, and in summer noons
The breeze wafts slumber through the airy cell.
Then, something lower down, upon the left,
Unless 'tis dried, thine eye may note a spring.
Go near now silently, and make me know
If still he persevere, and hold this spot,
Or have roamed elsewhere, that informed of this
I may proceed with what remains to say,
And we may act in concert.

NEOPTOLEMUS.               Lord Odysseus,
Thy foremost errand will not task me far.
Methinks I see the cave whereof thou speakest.

OD. Where? let me see it. Above there, or below?

NEO. Yonder, above. And yet I hear no tread.
                                  [NEOPTOLEMUS _climbs up to the cave_

OD. Look if he be not lodged in slumber there.

NEO. I find no inmate, but an empty room.

OD. What? no provision for a dwelling-place?

NEO. A bed of leaves for some one harbouring here.

OD. Nought else beneath the roof? Is all forlorn?

NEO. A cup of wood, some untaught craftsman's skill,
And, close at hand, these embers of a fire.

OD. That store is his. I read the token clear.

NEO. Oh! and these festering rags give evidence,
Steeped as with dressing some malignant sore.

OD. The man inhabits here: I know it now.
And sure he's not far off. How can he range,
Whose limb drags heavy with an ancient harm?
But he's gone, either to bring forage home,
Or where he hath found some plant of healing power.
Send therefore thine attendant to look forth,
Lest unawares he find me. All our host
Were not so fair a prize for him as I.

NEO. My man is going, and shall watch the path.
What more dost thou require of me? Speak on.

OD. Son of Achilles, know that thou art come
To serve us nobly, not with strength alone,
But, faithful to thy mission, if so be,
To do things strange, unwonted to thine ear.

NEO. What dost thou bid me?

OD.                         'Tis thy duty now
To entrap the mind of Poeas' son with words.
When he shall ask thee, who and whence thou art,
Declare thy name and father. 'Tis not that
I charge thee to conceal. But for thy voyage,
'Tis homeward, leaving the Achaean host,
With perfect hatred hating them, because
They who had drawn thee with strong prayers from home,
Their hope for taking Troy, allowed thee not
Thy just demand to have thy father's arms,
But, e'er thy coming, wrongly gave them o'er
Unto Odysseus: and thereon launch forth
With boundless execration against me.
That will not pain me, but if thou reject
This counsel, thou wilt trouble all our host,
Since, if his bow shall not be ta'en, thy life
Will ne'er be crowned through Troy's discomfiture.
  Now let me show, why thine approach to him
Is safe and trustful as mine cannot be
Thou didst sail forth, not to redeem thine oath,
Nor by constraint, nor with the foremost band.
All which reproaches I must bear: and he,
But seeing me, while master of his bow,
Will slay me, and my ruin will be thine.
This point then craves our cunning, to acquire
By subtle means the irresistible bow--
Thy nature was not framed, I know it well,
For speaking falsehood, or contriving harm.
Yet, since the prize of victory is so dear,
Endure it--We'll be just another day
But now, for one brief hour, devote thyself
To serve me without shame, and then for aye
Hereafter be the pearl of righteousness.

NEO. The thing that, being named, revolts mine ear,
Son of Laertes, I abhor to do
'Tis not my nature, no, nor, as they tell,
My father's, to work aught by craft and guile.
I'll undertake to bring him in by force,
Not by deceit. For, sure, with his one foot,
He cannot be a match for all our crew
Being sent, my lord, to serve thee, I am loth
To seem rebellious. But I rather choose
To offend with honour, than to win by wrong.

OD. Son of a valiant sire, I, too, in youth,
Had once a slow tongue and an active hand.
But since I have proved the world, I clearly see
Words and not deeds give mastery over men.

NEO. What then is thy command? To lie? No more?

OD. To entangle Philoctetes with deceit.

NEO. Why through deceit? May not persuasion fetch him?

OD. Never. And force as certainly will fail.

NEO. What lends him such assurance of defence?

OD. Arrows, the unerring harbingers of Death.

NEO. Then to go near him is a perilous thing.

OD. Unless with subtlety, as I have said.

NEO. And is not lying shameful to thy soul?

OD. Not if by lying I can save my soul.

NEO. How must one look in speaking such a word?

OD. Where gain invites, this shrinking is not good.

NEO. What gain I through his coming back to Troy?

OD. His arms alone have power to take Troy-town.

NEO. Then am not I the spoiler, as ye said?

OD. Thou without them, they without thee, are powerless.

NEO. If it be so, they must be sought and won.

OD. Yea, for in this two prizes will be thine.

NEO. What? When I learn them, I will not refuse.

OD. Wisdom and valour joined in one good name.

NEO. Shame, to the winds! Come, I will do this thing.

OD. Say, dost thou bear my bidding full in mind?

NEO. Doubt not, since once for all I have embraced it.

OD. Thou, then, await him here. I will retire,
For fear my hated presence should be known,
And take back our attendant to the ship.
And then once more, should ye appear to waste
The time unduly, I will send again
This same man hither in disguise, transformed
To the strange semblance of a merchantman;
From dark suggestion of whose crafty tongue,
Thou, O my son, shalt gather timely counsel.
  Now to my ship. This charge I leave to thee.
May secret Hermes guide us to our end,
And civic Pallas, named of victory,
The sure protectress of my devious way.

CHORUS (_entering_).
      Strange in the stranger land,                                I 1
      What shall I speak? What hide
      From a heart suspicious of ill?
      Tell me, O master mine!
      Wise above all is the man,
      Peerless in searching thought,
      Who with the Zeus-given wand
      Wieldeth a Heaven-sent power.
      This unto thee, dear son,
      Fraught with ancestral might,
      This to thy life hath come.
      Wherefore I bid thee declare,
      What must I do for thy need?

NEO. Even now methinks thou longest to espy
Near ocean's marge the place where he doth lie.
Gaze without fear. But when the traveller stern,
Who from this roof is parted, shall return,
Advancing still as I the signal give,
To serve each moment's mission thou shalt strive.

CH.   That, O my son, from of old                                  I 2
      Hath been my care, to take note
      What by thy beck'ning is told;
      Still thy success to promote.
      But for our errand to-day
      Behoves thee, master, to say
      Where is the hearth of his home;
      Or where even now doth he roam?
      O tell me, lest all unaware
      He spring like a wolf from his lair
      And I by surprise should be ta'en,
      Where doth he move or remain,
      Here lodging, or wandering away?

NEO. Thou seest yon double doorway of his cell,
Poor habitation of the rock.

CH. 2.                       But tell
Where is the pain-worn wight himself abroad?

NEO. To me 'tis clear, that, in his quest for food,
Here, not far off, he trails yon furrowed path.
For, so 'tis told, this mode the sufferer hath
Of sustenance, oh hardness! bringing low
Wild creatures with wing'd arrows from his bow;
Nor findeth healer for his troublous woe.

CH.     I feel his misery.                                        II 1
        With no companion eye,
        Far from all human care,
        He pines with fell disease;
        Each want he hourly sees
        Awakening new despair.
        How can he bear it still?
        O cruel Heavens! O pain
        Of that afflicted mortal train
        Whose life sharp sorrows fill!

        Born in a princely hall,                                  II 2
        Highest, perchance, of all,
        Now lies he comfortless
        Alone in deep distress,
        'Mongst rough and dappled brutes,
        With pangs and hunger worn;
        While from far distance shoots,
        On airy pinion borne,
        The unbridled Echo, still replying
        To his most bitter crying.

NEO. At nought of this I marvel--for if I
Judge rightly, there assailed him from on high
That former plague through Chrysa's cruel sting[1]:
And if to-day he suffer anything
With none to soothe, it must be from the will
Of some great God, so caring to fulfil
The word of prophecy, lest he should bend
On Troy the shaft no mortal may forfend,
Before the arrival of Troy's destined hour,
When she must fall, o'er-mastered by their power.

CH. 1. Hush, my son!                                             III 1

NEO.                 Why so?

CH. 1.                       A sound
Gendered of some mortal woe,
Started from the neighbouring ground.
Here, or there? Ah! now I know.
Hark! 'tis the voice of one in pain,
Travelling hardly, the deep strain
Of human anguish, all too clear,
That smites my heart, that wounds mine ear.

CH. 2. From far it peals. But thou, my son!                      III 2

NEO. What?

CH. 2.     Think again. He moveth nigh:
He holds the region: not with tone
Of piping shepherd's rural minstrelsy,
But belloweth his far cry,
Stumbling perchance with mortal pain,
  Or else in wild amaze,
  As he our ship surveys
Unwonted on the inhospitable main.

_Enter_ PHILOCTETES.

PHILOCTETES. Ho!
What men are ye that to this desert shore,
Harbourless, uninhabited, are come
On shipboard? Of what country or what race
Shall I pronounce ye? For your outward garb
Is Grecian, ever dearest to this heart
That hungers now to hear your voices' tune.
Ah! do not fear me, do not shrink away
From my wild looks: but, pitying one so poor,
Forlorn and desolate in nameless woe,
Speak, if with friendly purpose ye are come.
Oh answer! 'Tis not meet that I should lose
This kindness from your lips, or ye from mine.

NEO. Then know this first, O stranger, as thou wouldest,
That we are Greeks.

PHI.                O dear, dear name! Ah me!
In all these years, once, only once, I hear it!
My son, what fairest gale hath wafted thee?
What need hath brought thee to the shore? What mission?
Declare all this, that I may know thee well.

NEO. The sea-girt Scyros is my native home.
Thitherward I make voyage:--Achilles' son,
Named Neoptolemus.--I have told thee all.

PHI. Dear is that shore to me, dear is thy father
O ancient Lycomedes' foster-child,
Whence cam'st thou hither? How didst thou set forth?

NEO. From Troy we made our course in sailing hither.

PHI. How? Sure thou wast not with us, when at first
We launched our vessels on the Troyward way?

NEO. Hadst thou a share in that adventurous toil?

PHI. And know'st thou not whom thou behold'st in me,
Young boy?

NEO.       How should I know him whom I ne'er
Set eye on?

PHI.        Hast not even heard my name,
Nor echoing rumour of my ruinous woe?

NEO. Nay, I know nought of all thy questioning.

PHI. How full of griefs am I, how Heaven-abhorred,
When of my piteous state no faintest sound
Hath reached my home, or any Grecian land!
But they, who pitilessly cast me forth,
Keep silence and are glad, while this my plague
Blooms ever, and is strengthened more and more.
Boy, great Achilles' offspring, in this form
Thou seest the man, of whom, methinks, erewhile
Thou hast been told, to whom the Herculean bow
Descended, Philoctetes, Poeas' son;
Whom the two generals and the Ithacan king
Cast out thus shamefully forlorn, afflicted
With the fierce malady and desperate wound
Made by the cruel basilisk's murderous tooth.
With this for company they left me, child!
Exposed upon this shore, deserted, lone.
  From seaward Chrysa came they with their fleet
And touched at Lemnos. I had fallen to rest
From the long tossing, in a shadowy cave
On yonder cliff by the shore. Gladly they saw,
And left me, having set forth for my need,
Poor man, some scanty rags, and a thin store
Of provender. Such food be theirs, I pray!
Imagine, O my son, when they were gone,
What wakening, what arising, then was mine;
What weeping, what lamenting of my woe!
When I beheld the ships, wherewith I sailed,
Gone, one and all! and no man in the place,
None to bestead me, none to comfort me
In my sore sickness. And where'er I looked,
Nought but distress was present with me still.
No lack of that, for one thing!--Ah! my son,
Time passed, and there I found myself alone
Within my narrow lodging, forced to serve
Each pressing need. For body's sustenance
This bow supplied me with sufficient store,
Wounding the feathered doves, and when the shaft,
From the tight string, had struck, myself, ay me!
Dragging this foot, would crawl to my swift prey.
Then water must be fetched, and in sharp frost
Wood must be found and broken,--all by me.
Nor would fire come unbidden, but with flint
From flints striking dim sparks, I hammered forth
The struggling flame that keeps the life in me.
For houseroom with the single help of fire
Gives all I need, save healing for my sore.
  Now learn, my son, the nature of this isle.
No mariner puts in here willingly.
For it hath neither moorage, nor sea-port,
For traffic or kind shelter or good cheer.
Not hitherward do prudent men make voyage.
Perchance one may have touched against his will.
Many strange things may happen in long time.
These, when they come, in words have pitied me,
And given me food, or raiment, in compassion.
But none is willing, when I speak thereof,
To take me safely home. Wherefore I pine
Now this tenth year, in famine and distress,
Feeding the hunger of my ravenous plague.
  Such deeds, my son, the Atridae, and the might
Of sage Odysseus, have performed on me.
Wherefore may all the Olympian gods, one day,
Plague them with stern requital for my wrong!

CH. Methinks my feeling for thee, Poeas' child,
Is like that of thy former visitants.

NEO. I, too, a witness to confirm his words,
Know them for verities, since I have found
The Atridae and Odysseus evil men.

PHI. Art thou, too, wroth with the all-pestilent sons
Of Atreus? Have they given thee cause to grieve?

NEO. Would that my hand might ease the wrath I feel!
Then Sparta and Mycenae should be ware
That Scyros too breeds valiant sons for war.

PHI. Brave youth! I love thee. Tell me the great cause
Why thou inveighest against them with such heat?

NEO. O son of Poeas, hardly shall I tell
What outrage I endured when I had come;
Yet I will speak it. When the fate of death
O'ertook Achilles--

PHI.                Out, alas! no more!
Hold, till thou first hast made me clearly know,
Is Peleus' offspring dead?

NEO.                       Alas! he is,
Slain by no mortal, felled by Phoebus' shaft:
So men reported--

PHI.              Well, right princely was he!
And princely is he who slew him. Shall I mourn
Him first, or wait till I have heard thy tale?

NEO. Methinks thou hast thyself enough to mourn,
Without the burden of another's woe.

PHI. Well spoken. Then renew thine own complaint,
And tell once more wherein they insulted thee.

NEO. There came to fetch me, in a gallant ship,
Odysseus and the fosterer of my sire[2],
Saying, whether soothly, or in idle show,
That, since my father perished, it was known
None else but I should take Troy's citadel.
Such words from them, my friend, thou may'st believe,
Held me not long from making voyage with speed,
Chiefly through longing for my father's corse,
To see him yet unburied,--for I ne'er
Had seen him[3]. Then, besides, 'twas a fair cause,
If, by my going, I should vanquish Troy.
One day I had sailed, and on the second came
To sad Sigeum with wind-favoured speed,
When straightway all the host, surrounding me
As I set foot on shore, saluted me,
And swore the dead Achilles was in life,
Their eyes being witness, when they looked on me.
He lay there in his shroud: but I, unhappy,
Soon ending lamentation for the dead,
Went near to those Atridae, as to friends,
To obtain my father's armour and all else
That had been his. And then,--alas the while,
That men should be so hard!--they spake this word:
'Seed of Achilles, thou may'st freely take
All else thy father owned, but for those arms,
Another wields them now, Laertes' son.'
Tears rushed into mine eyes, and in hot wrath
I straightway rose, and bitterly outspake:
'O miscreant! What? And have ye dared to give
Mine arms to some man else, unknown to me?'
Then said Odysseus, for he chanced to be near,
'Yea, child, and justly have they given me these.
I saved them and their master in the field.'
Then in fierce anger all at once I launched
All terms of execration at his head,
Bating no word, being maddened by the thought
That I should lose this heirloom,--and to him!
He, at this pass, though not of wrathful mood,
Stung by such utterance, made rejoinder thus:
'Thou wast not with us here, but wrongfully
Didst bide afar. And, since thou mak'st so bold,
I tell thee, never shalt thou, as thou sayest,
Sail with these arms to Scyros.'--Thus reviled,
With such an evil echo in mine ear,
I voyage homeward, robbed of mine own right
By that vile offset of an evil tree[4].
Yet less I blame him than the men in power.
For every multitude, be it army or state,
Takes tone from those who rule it, and all taint
Of disobedience from bad counsel springs.
I have spoken. May the Atridae's enemy
Be dear to Heaven, as he is loved by me!

CH.   Mother of mightiest Zeus,                                      1
            Feeder of all that live,
            Who from thy mountainous breast
            Rivers of gold dost give!
      To thee, O Earth, I cried that shameful day,
      When insolence from Atreus' sons went forth
      Full on our lord: when they bestowed away
      His father's arms to crown Odysseus' worth;
      Thou, whom bull-slaughtering lions yoked bear,
            O mighty mother, hear!

PHI. Your coming is commended by a grief
That makes you kindly welcome. For I feel
A chord that vibrates to your voice, and tells,
Thus have Odysseus and the Atridae wrought.
Full well I know, Odysseus' poisoned tongue
Shrinks from no mischief nor no guileful word
That leads to bad achievement in the end.
This moves not my main marvel, but if one
Saw this and bore it,--Aias of the shield.

NEO. Ah, friend, he was no more. Had he but lived,
This robbery had ne'er been wrought on me.

PHI. What? Is he too departed?

NEO.                           He is dead.
The light no more beholds him.

PHI.                           Oh! alas!
But Tydeus' offspring, and the rascal birth
Laertes bought of Sisyphus, they live:
I know it. For their death were to be wished.

NEO. Yea, be assured, they live and flourish high
Exalted in the host of Argive men.

PHI. And Nestor, my old friend, good aged man,
Is he yet living? Oft he would prevent
Their evils, by the wisdom of his thought.

NEO. He too is now in trouble, having lost
Antilochus, the comfort of his age.

PHI. There, there! In one brief word thou hast revealed
The mournful case of twain, whom I would last
Have chosen to hear of as undone. Ah me!
Where must one look? when these are dead, and he,
Odysseus, lives,--and in a time like this,
That craves their presence, and his death for theirs.

NEO. He wrestles cleverly; but, O my friend,
Even ablest wits are ofttimes snared at last.

PHI. Tell me, I pray, what was become of him,
Patroclus, whom thy father loved so well?

NEO. He, too, was gone. I'll teach thee in a word
One truth for all. War doth not willingly
Snatch off the wicked, but still takes the good.

PHI. True! and to prove thy saying, I will inquire
The fate of a poor dastard, of mean worth,
But ever shrewd and nimble with his tongue.

NEO. Whom but Odysseus canst thou mean by this?

PHI. I meant not him. But there was one Thersites,
Who ne'er made conscience to stint speech, where all
Cried 'Silence!' Is he living, dost thou know?

NEO. I saw him not, but knew he was alive.

PHI. He must be: for no evil yet was crushed.
The Heavens will ever shield it. 'Tis their sport
To turn back all things rancorous and malign
From going down to the grave, and send instead
The good and true. Oh, how shall we commend
Such dealings, how defend them? When I praise
Things god-like, I find evil in the Gods.

NEO. I, O thou child of a Trachinian sire,
Henceforth will take good care, from far away
To look on Troy and Atreus' children twain.
Yea, where the trickster lords it o'er the just,
And goodness languishes and rascals rule,
--Such courses I will nevermore endure.
But rock-bound Scyros henceforth shall suffice
To yield me full contentment in my home.
Now, to my vessel! And thou, Poeas' child,
Farewell, right heartily farewell! May Heaven
Grant thy desire, and rid thee of thy plague!
Let us be going, that when God shall give
Fair voyage, that moment we may launch away.

PHI. My son, are ye now setting forth?

NEO.                                   Our time
Bids us go near and look to sail erelong.

PHI. Now, by thy father, by thy mother,--nay,
By all thy love e'er cherished in thy home,
Suppliant I beg thee, leave me not thus lone,
Forlorn in all my misery which thou seest,
In all thou hast heard of here surrounding me!
Stow me with other freightage. Full of care,
I know, and burdensome the charge may prove.
Yet venture! Surely to the noble mind
All shame is hateful and all kindness blest.
And shame would be thy meed, didst thou fail here
But, doing this, thou shalt have glorious fame,
When I return alive to Oeta's vale.
Come, 'tis the labour not of one whole day.
So thou durst take me, fling me where thou wilt
O' the ship, in hold, prow, stern, or wheresoe'er
I least may trouble those on board with me.
Ah! by great Zeus, the suppliant's friend, comply,
My son, be softened! See, where I am fall'n
Thus on my knees before thee, though so weak,
Crippled and powerless. Ah! forsake me not
Thus far from human footstep. Take me, take me!
If only to thy home, or to the town
Of old Chalcodon[5] in Euboea.--From thence
I have not far to Oeta, and the ridge
Of Trachis, and Spercheius' lordly flood.
So thou shalt bless my father with my sight.
And yet long since I fear he may be gone.
For oft I sent him suppliant prayers by men
Who touched this isle, entreating him to fetch
And bear me safely home with his own crew.
But either he is dead, or else, methinks,
It well may be, my messengers made light
Of my concerns, and hastened onward home.
But now in thee I find both messenger
And convoy, thou wilt pity me and save.
For, well thou knowest, danger never sleeps,
And fear of dark reverse is always nigh.
Mortals, when free, should look where mischief lurks,
And in their happiest hour consider well
Their life, lest ruin unsuspected come.

CH. Pity him, O my king!                                             2
          Many a crushing woe
          He telleth, such as I pray
          None of my friends may know.
    And if, dear master, thou mislikest sore
    Yon cruel-hearted lordly pair, I would,
    Turning their plan of evil to his good,
    On swift ship bear him to his native shore,
    Meeting his heart's desire; and free thy path
          From fear of heavenly wrath.

NEO. Thou mak'st small scruple here; but be advised:
Lest, when this plague on board shall weary thee,
Thy voice should alter from this liberal tone.

CH. No, truly! Fear not thou shalt ever have
Just cause to utter such reproach on me.

NEO. Then sure 'twere shame, should I more backward prove
Than thou, to labour for the stranger's need.
Come, if thou wilt, let us make voyage, and he,
Let him set forth with speed. Our ship shall take him.
He shall not be refused. Only may Heaven
Lead safely hence and to our destined port!

PHI. O morning full of brightness! Kindest friend,
Sweet mariners, how can I make you feel,
In act, how dearly from my heart I love you!
Ye have won my soul. Let us be gone, my son,--
First having said farewell to this poor cave,
My homeless dwelling-place, that thou may'st know,
How barely I have lived, how firm my heart!
Methinks another could not have endured
The very sight of what I bore. But I
Through strong necessity have conquered pain.

CH. Stay: let us understand. There come two men
A stranger, with a shipmate of thy crew.
When ye have heard them, ye may then go in.

_Enter_ Messenger, _disguised as a merchantman_.

MERCHANTMAN. Son of Achilles, my companion here,
Who with two more remained to guard thy ship,
Agreed to help me find thee where thou wert,
Since unexpectedly, through fortune's will,
I meet thee, mooring by the self-same shore.
For like a merchantman, with no great sail,
Making my course from Ilion to my home,
Grape-clustered Peparethos, when I heard
The mariners declare that one and all
Were of thy crew, I would not launch again,
Without a word, till we had told our news.--
Methinks thou knowest nought of thine own case,
What new devices of the Argive chiefs
Surround thee; nor devices only now,
But active deeds, no longer unperformed.

NEO. Well, stranger, for the kindness thou hast shown,--
Else were I base,--my heart must thank thee still.
But tell me what thou meanest, that I may learn
What new-laid plot thou bring'st me from the camp.

MER. Old Phoenix, Acamas and Demophon
Are gone in thy pursuit with ships and men.

NEO. To bring me back with reasons or perforce?

MER. I know not. What I heard, I am here to tell.

NEO. How? And is this in act? Are they set forth
To please the Atridae, Phoenix and the rest?

MER. The thing is not to do, but doing now.

NEO. What kept Odysseus back, if this be so,
From going himself? Had he some cause for fear?

MER. He and the son of Tydeus, when our ship
Hoist sail, were gone to fetch another man.

NEO. For whom could he himself be sailing forth?

MER. For some one,--but first tell me, whispering low
Whate'er thou speakest,--who is this I see?

NEO. (_speaking aloud_).
This, sir, is Philoctetes the renowned.

MER. (_aside to_ NEOPTOLEMUS).
Without more question, snatch thyself away
And sail forth from this land.

PHI.                           What saith he, boy?
Through what dark traffic is the mariner
Betraying me with whispering in thine ear?

NEO. I have not caught it, but whate'er he speaks
He must speak openly to us and thee.

MER. Seed of Achilles, let me not offend
The army by my words! Full many a boon,
Being poor, I reap from them for service done.

NEO. The Atridae are my foes; the man you see
Is my fast friend, because he hates them sore.
Then, if you come in kindness, you must hide
Nothing from him or me of all thou hast heard.

MER. Look what thou doest, my son!

NEO.                               I mark it well.

MER. Thou shalt be answerable.

NEO.                           Content: but speak.

MER. Then hear me. These two men whom I have named,
Diomedes and Odysseus, are set forth
Engaged on oath to bring this man by force
If reasons fail. The Achaeans every one
Have heard this plainly from Odysseus' mouth.
He was the louder and more confident.

NEO. Say, for what cause, after so long a time,
Can Atreus' sons have turned their thoughts on him,
Whom long they had cast forth? What passing touch
Of conscience moved them, or what stroke from Heaven,
Whose wrath requites all wicked deeds of men?

MER. Methinks thou hast not heard what I will now
Unfold to thee. There was a princely seer,
A son of Priam, Helenus by name,
Whom he for whom no word is bad enough,
Crafty Odysseus, sallying forth alone
One night, had taken, and in bonds displayed
'Fore all the Achaeans, a right noble prey.
He, 'mid his other prophecies, foretold
No Grecian force should sack Troy's citadel,
Till with fair reasons they had brought this man
From Lemnos isle, his lonely dwelling-place.
  When thus the prophet spake, Laertes' son
Straight undertook to fetch this man, and show him
To all the camp:--he hoped, with fair consent:
But else, perforce.--And, if he failed in this,
Whoever would might smite him on the head.
  My tale is told, dear youth. I counsel speed
To thee and to the friend for whom thou carest.

PHI. Ah me, unhappy! has that rascal knave
Sworn to fetch me with reasons to their camp?
As likely might his reasons bring me back,
Like his begetter, from the house of death.

MER. You talk of what I know not. I will go
Shipward. May God be with you for all good.                    [_Exit_

PHI. Is not this terrible, Laertes' son
Should ever think to bring me with soft words
And show me from his deck to all their host?
No! Sooner will I listen to the tongue
Of the curs'd basilisk that thus hath maim'd me.
  Ay, but he'll venture anything in word
Or deed. And now I know he will be here.
Come, O my son, let us be gone, while seas
And winds divide us from Odysseus' ship.
Let us depart. Sure timely haste brings rest
And quiet slumber when the toil is done.

NEO. Shall we not sail when this south-western wind
Hath fallen, that now is adverse to our course?

PHI. All winds are fair to him who flies from woe.

NEO. Nay, but this head-wind hinders them no less.

PHI. No head-wind hinders pirates on their way,
When violence and rapine lead them on.

NEO. Well, then, let us be going, if you will;
When you have taken from within the cave
What most you need and value.

PHI.                          Though my all
Be little, there is that I may not lose.

NEO. What can there be that we have not on board?

PHI. A leaf I have found, wherewith I still the rage
Of my sore plague, and lull it quite to rest.

NEO. Well, bring it forth.--What? Is there something more?

PHI. If any of these arrows here are fallen,
I would not leave them for a casual prey.

NEO. How? Do I see thee with the marvellous bow?

PHI. Here in my hand. The world hath only one.

NEO. And may one touch and handle it, and gaze
With reverence, as on a thing from Heaven?

PHI. Thou mayest, my son. This and whate'er of mine
May stead thee, 'tis thy privilege to enjoy.

NEO. In very truth I long for it, but so,
That longing waits on leave. Am I permitted?

PHI. Thou art, my son,--and well thou speakest,--thou art.
Thou, that hast given me light and life, the joy
Of seeing Mount Oeta and my father's home,
With all I love there, and his aged head,--
Thou that hast raised me far above my foes
Who triumphed! Thou may'st take it in thine hand,
And,--when thou hast given it back to me,--may'st vaunt
Alone of mortals for thine excellence
To have held this in thy touch. I, too, at first,
Received it as a boon for kindness done.

NEO. Well, go within.

PHI.                  Nay, I must take thee too.
My sickness craves thee for its comforter.
                               [PHILOCTETES _and_ NEOPTOLEMUS _go into
                                                             the cave_

CHORUS.
    In fable I have heard,                                         I 1
    Though sight hath ne'er confirmed the word,
    How he who attempted once the couch supreme,
    To a whirling wheel by Zeus the all-ruler bound,
    Tied head and heel, careering ever round,
    Atones his impious unsubstantial dream.
    Of no man else, through eye or ear,
    Have I discerned a fate more full of fear
    Than yonder sufferer's of the cureless wound:
    Who did no violence, defrauded none:--
    A just man, had he dwelt among the just
    Unworthily behold him thrust
    Alone to hear the billows roar
    That break around a rugged shore!
How could he live, whose life was thus consumed with moan?

    Where neighbour there was none:                                I 2
    No arm to stay him wandering lone,
    Unevenly, with stumbling steps and sore;
    No friend in need, no kind inhabitant,
    To minister to his importunate want,
    No heart whereto his pangs he might deplore.
    None who, whene'er the gory flow
    Was rushing hot, might healing herbs bestow,
    Or cull from teeming Earth some genial plant
    To allay the anguish of malignant pain
    And soothe the sharpness of his poignant woe.
    Like infant whom the nurse lets go,
    With tottering movement here and there,
    He crawled for comfort, whensoe'er
His soul-devouring plague relaxed its cruel strain.

  Not fed with foison of all-teeming Earth                        II 1
  Whence we sustain us, ever-toiling men,
  But only now and then
With winged things, by his wing'd shafts brought low,
  He stayed his hunger from his bow.
  Poor soul, that never through ten years of dearth
  Had pleasure from the fruitage of the vine,
  But seeking to some standing pool,
            Nor clear nor cool,
Foul water heaved to head for lack of heartening wine.

  But now, consorted with the hero's child,                       II 2
  He winneth greatness and a joyful change;
  Over the water wild
Borne by a friendly bark beneath the range
  Of Oeta, where Spercheius fills
  Wide channels winding among lovely hills
  Haunted of Melian nymphs, till he espies
  The roof-tree of his father's hall,
            And high o'er all
Shines the bronze shield of him, whose home is in the skies[6].
                         [NEOPTOLEMUS _comes out of the cave, followed
                                             by_ PHILOCTETES _in pain_

NEO. Prithee, come on! Why dost thou stand aghast,
Voiceless, and thus astonied in thine air?

PHI. Oh! oh!

NEO.         What?

PHI.               Nothing. Come my son, fear nought.

NEO. Is pain upon thee? Hath thy trouble come?

PHI. No pain, no pain! 'Tis past; I am easy now.
Ye heavenly powers!

NEO.                Why dost thou groan aloud,
And cry to Heaven?

PHI.               To come and save. Kind Heaven!
Oh, oh!

NEO.    What is 't? Why silent? Wilt not speak?
I see thy misery.

PHI.              Oh! I am lost, my son!
I cannot hide it from you. Oh! it shoots,
It pierces. Oh unhappy! Oh! my woe!
I am lost, my son, I am devoured. Oh me!
Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Pain! pain! Oh pain! oh pain!
Child, if a sword be to thine hand, smite hard,
Shear off my foot! heed not my life! Quick, come!

NEO. What hath so suddenly arisen, that thus
Thou mak'st ado and groanest o'er thyself?

PHI. Thou knowest.

NEO.               What know I?

PHI.                            O! thou knowest, my son!

NEO. I know not.

PHI.             How? Not know? Ah me! Pain, pain!

NEO. Thy plague is a sore burden, heavy and sore.

PHI. Sore? 'Tis unutterable. Have pity on me!

NEO. What shall I do?

PHI.                  Do not in fear forsake me.
This wandering evil comes in force again,
Hungry as ere it fed.

NEO.                  O hapless one!
Thrice hapless in thy manifold distress!
What wilt thou? Shall I raise thee on mine arm?

PHI. Nay, but receiving from my hand the bow,
As late thou didst desire me, keep it safe
And guard it, till the fury of my pain
Pass over me and cease. For when 'tis spent,
Slumber will seize me, else it ne'er would end.
I must sleep undisturbed. But if meanwhile
They come,--by Heaven I charge thee, in no wise,
Willingly nor perforce, let them have this!
Else thou wilt be the slayer of us both;
Of me thy suppliant, and of thyself.

NEO. Fear not my care. No hand shall hold these arms
But thine and mine. Give, and Heaven bless the deed!

PHI. I give them; there, my son! But look to Heaven
And pray no envy smite thee, nor such bane
In having them, as fell on me and him
Who bore them formerly.

NEO.                    O grant it, Gods!
And grant us fair and happy voyage, where'er
Our course is shaped and righteous Heaven shall guide.

PHI. Ah! but I fear, my son, thy prayer is vain:
For welling yet again from depths within,
This gory ooze is dripping. It will come!
I know it will. O, foot, torn helpless thing,
What wilt thou do to me? Ah! ah! It comes,
It is at hand. 'Tis here! Woe's me, undone!
I have shown you all. Stay near me. Go not far:
Ah! ah!
O island king, I would this agony
Might cleave thy bosom through and through! Woe, woe!
Woe! Ah! ye two commanders of the host,
Agamemnon, Menelaues, O that ye,
Another ten years' durance in my room
Might nurse this malady! O Death, Death, Death!
I call thee daily--wilt thou never come?
Will it not be?--My son, thou noble boy,
If thou art noble, take and burn me there
Aloft in yon all-worshipped Lemnian fire!
Yea, when the bow thou keep'st was my reward,
I did like service for the child of Heaven.
How now, my son?
What say'st? Art silent? Where--where art thou, boy?

NEO. My heart is full, and groaning o'er thy woes.

PHI. Nay, yet have comfort. This affliction oft
Goes no less swiftly than it came. I pray thee,
Stand fast and leave me not alone!

NEO.                               Fear nought.
We will not stir.

PHI.              Wilt thou remain?

NEO.                                Be sure of it.

PHI. I'll not degrade thee with an oath, my son.

NEO. Rest satisfied. I may not go without thee.

PHI. Thy hand, to pledge me that!

NEO.                              There, I will stay.

PHI. Now, now, aloft!

NEO.                  Where mean'st thou?

PHI.                                      Yonder aloft!

NEO. Whither? Thou rav'st. Why starest thou at the sky?

PHI. Now, let me go.

NEO.                 Where?

PHI.                        Let me go, I say!

NEO. I will not.

PHI.             You will kill me. Let me go!

NEO. Well, thou know'st best I hold thee not.

PHI.                                          O Earth,
I die. receive me to thy breast! This pain
Subdues me utterly, I cannot stand.

NEO. Methinks he will be fast in slumber soon
That head sinks backward, and a clammy sweat
Bathes all his limbs, while from his foot hath burst
A vein, dark bleeding. Let us leave him, friends,
In quietness, till he hath fallen to sleep.

CHORUS
    Lord of the happiest life,                                       I
    Sleep, thou that know'st not strife,
        That know'st not grief,
    Still wafting sure relief,
        Come, saviour now!
    Thy healing balm is spread
    Over this pain worn head,
Quench not the beam that gives calm to his brow.

    Look, O my lord, to thy path,
    Either to go or to stay
    How is my thought to proceed?
    What is our cause for delay?
    Look! Opportunity's power,
    Fitting the task to the hour,
    Giveth the race to the swift.

NEO. He hears not. But I see that to have ta'en
His bow without him were a bootless gain
He must sail with us. So the god hath said
Heaven hath decreed this garland for his head:
And to have failed with falsehood were a meed
Of shameful soilure for a shameless deed.

CH. God shall determine the end--                                   II
    But for thine answer, friend,
        Waft soft words low!
    All sick men's sleep, we know,
        Hath open eye;
    Their quickly ruffling mind
    Quivers in lightest wind,
Sleepless in slumber new danger to spy.

    Think, O my lord, of thy path,
    Secretly look forth afar,
    What wilt thou do for thy need?
    How with the wise wilt thou care?
    If toward the nameless thy heart
    Chooseth this merciful part,
    Huge are the dangers that drift.

The wind is fair, my son, the wind is fair,
The man is dark and helpless, stretched in night.
(O kind, warm sleep that calmest human care!)
Powerless of hand and foot and ear and sight,
Blind, as one lying in the house of death.
(Think well if here thou utterest timely breath.)
This, O my son, is all my thought can find,
Best are the toils that without frightening bind.

NEO. Hush! One word more were madness. He revives.
His eye hath motion. He uplifts his head.

PHI. Fair daylight following sleep, and ye, dear friends,
Faithful beyond all hope in tending me!
I never could have dreamed that thou, dear youth,
Couldst thus have borne my sufferings and stood near
So full of pity to relieve my pain.
Not so the worthy generals of the host;--
This princely patience was not theirs to show.
Only thy noble nature, nobly sprung,
Made light of all the trouble, though oppressed
With fetid odours and unceasing cries.
And now, since this my plague would seem to yield
Some pause and brief forgetfulness of pain,
With thine own hand, my son, upraise me here,
And set me on my feet, that, when my strength
After exhaustion shall return again,
We may move shoreward and launch forth with speed.

NEO. I feel unhoped-for gladness when I see
Thy painless gaze, and hear thy living breath,
For thine appearance and surroundings both
Were deathlike. But arise! Or, if thou wilt,
These men shall raise thee. For they will not shrink
From toil which thou and I at once enjoin.

PHI. Right, right, my son! But lift me thine own self,
As I am sure thou meanest. Let these be,
Lest they be burdened with the noisome smell
Before the time. Enough for them to bear
The trouble on board.

NEO.                  I will; stand up, endure!

PHI. Fear not. Old habit will enable me.

NEO. O me!
What shall I do? Now 'tis my turn to exclaim!

PHI. What canst thou mean? What change is here, my son?

NEO. I know not how to shift the troublous word.
'Tis hopeless.

PHI.           What is hopeless? Speak not so,
Dear child!

NEO.        But so my wretched lot hath fallen.

PHI. Ah! Can it be, the offence of my disease
Hath moved thee not to take me now on board?

NEO. All is offence to one who hath forced himself
From the true bent to an unbecoming deed.

PHI. Nought misbecoming to thyself or sire
Doest thou or speak'st, befriending a good man.

NEO. My baseness will appear. That wrings my soul.

PHI. Not in thy deeds. But for thy words, I fear me!

NEO. O Heaven! Must double vileness then be mine
Both shameful silence and most shameful speech?

PHI. Or my discernment is at fault, or thou
Mean'st to betray me and make voyage without me.

NEO. Nay, not without thee, there is my distress!
Lest I convey thee to thy bitter grief.

PHI. How? How, dear youth? I do not understand.

NEO. Here I unveil it. Thou art to sail to Troy,
To join the chieftains and the Achaean host.

PHI. What do I hear? Ah!

NEO.                     Grieve not till you learn.

PHI. Learn what? What wilt thou make of me? What mean'st thou?

NEO. First to release thee from this plague, and then
With thee to go and take the realm of Troy.

PHI. And is this thine intent?

NEO.                           'Tis so ordained
Unchangeably. Be not dismayed! 'Tis so.

PHI. Me miserable! I am betrayed, undone!
What guile is here? My bow! give back my bow!

NEO. I may not. Interest, and duty too,
Force me to obey commandment.

PHI.                          O thou fire,
Thou terror of the world! Dark instrument
Of ever-hateful guile!--What hast thou done?
How thou hast cheated me! Art not ashamed
To look on him that sued to thee for shelter?
O heart of stone, thou hast stolen my life away
With yonder bow!--Ah, yet I beg of thee,
Give it me back, my son, I entreat thee, give!
By all thy father worshipped, rob me not
Of life!--Ah me! Now he will speak no more,
But turns away, obdurate to retain it.
O ye, my comrades in this wilderness,
Rude creatures of the rocks, O promontories,
Creeks, precipices of the hills, to you
And your familiar presence I complain
Of this foul trespass of Achilles' son.
Sworn to convey me home, to Troy he bears me.
And under pledge of his right hand hath ta'en
And holds from me perforce my wondrous bow,
The sacred gift of Zeus-born Heracles,
Thinking to wave it midst the Achaean host
Triumphantly for his. In conquering me
He vaunts as of some valorous feat, and knows not
He is spoiling a mere corse, an empty dream,
The shadow of a vapour. In my strength
He ne'er had vanquished me. Even as I am,
He could not, but by guile. Now, all forlorn,
I am abused, deceived. What must I do?
Nay, give it me. Nay, yet be thy true self!
Thou art silent. I am lost. O misery!
Rude face of rock, back I return to thee
And thy twin gateway, robbed of arms and food,
To wither in thy cave companionless:--
No more with these mine arrows to destroy
Or flying bird or mountain-roving beast.
But, all unhappy! I myself must be
The feast of those on whom I fed, the chase
Of that I hunted, and shall dearly pay
In bloody quittance for their death, through one
Who seemed all ignorant of sinful guile.
Perish,--not till I am certain if thy heart
Will change once more,--if not, my curse on thee!

CH. What shall we do, my lord? We wait thy word
Or to sail now, or yield to his desire.

NEO. My heart is pressed with a strange pity for him,
Not now beginning, but long since begun.

PHI. Ay, pity me, my son! by all above,
Make not thy name a scorn by wronging me!

NEO. O! I am troubled sore. What must I do?
Would I had never left mine island home!

PHI. Thou art not base, but seemest to have learnt
Some baseness from base men. Now, as 'tis meet,
Be better guided--leave me mine arms, and go.

NEO. (_to Chorus_).
What shall we do?

_Enter_ ODYSSEUS.

ODYSSEUS.         What art thou doing, knave?
Give me that bow, and haste thee back again.

PHI. Alas! What do I hear? Odysseus' voice?

OD. Be sure of that, Odysseus, whom thou seest.

PHI. Oh, I am bought and sold, undone! 'Twas he
That kidnapped me, and robbed me of my bow.

OD. Yea. I deny it not. Be sure, 'twas I.

PHI. Give back, my son, the bow; release it!

OD.                                          That,
Though he desire it, he shall never do.
Thou too shalt march along, or these shall force thee.

PHI. They force me! O thou boldest of bad men!
They force me?

OD.            If thou com'st not willingly.

PHI. O Lemnian earth and thou almighty flame,
Hephaestos' workmanship, shall this be borne,
That he by force must drag me from your care?

OD. 'Tis Zeus, I tell thee, monarch of this isle,
Who thus hath willed. I am his minister.

PHI. Wretch, what vile words thy wit hath power to say!
The gods are liars when invoked by thee.

OD. Nay, 'tis their truth compels thee to this voyage.

PHI. I will not have it so.

OD.                         I will. Thou shalt.

PHI. Woe for my wretchedness! My father, then,
Begat no freeman, but a slave in me.

OD. Nay, but the peer of noblest men, with whom
Thou art to take and ravage Troy with might.

PHI. Never,--though I must suffer direst woe,--
While this steep Lemnian ground is mine to tread!

OD. What now is thine intent?

PHI.                          Down from the crag
This head shall plunge and stain the crag beneath.

OD. (_to the Attendants_.)
Ay, seize and bind him. Baffle him in this.

PHI. Poor hands, for lack of your beloved string,
Caught by this craven! O corrupted soul!
How thou hast undermined me, having taken
To screen thy quest this youth to me unknown,
Far worthier of my friendship than of thine,
Who knew no better than to obey command.
Even now 'tis manifest he burns within
With pain for his own error and my wrong.
But, though unwilling and mapt for ill,
Thy crafty, mean, and cranny spying soul
Too well hath lessoned him in sinful lore.
Now thou hast bound me, O thou wretch, and thinkest
To take me from this coast, where thou didst cast me
Outlawed and desolate, a corpse 'mongst men.
  Oh!
I curse thee now, as ofttimes in the past:
But since Heaven yields me nought but bitterness,
Thou livest and art blithe, while 'tis my pain
To live on in my misery, laughed to scorn
By thee and Atreus' sons, those generals twain
Whom thou art serving in this chase. But thou
With strong compulsion and deceit was driven
Troyward, whilst I, poor victim, of free will
Took my seven ships and sailed there, yet was thrown
Far from all honour,--as thou sayest, by them,
But, as they turn the tale, by thee.--And now
Why fetch me hence and take me? To what end?
I am nothing, dead to you this many a year.
How, O thou Heaven-abhorred! am I not now
Lame and of evil smell? how shall ye vaunt
Before the gods drink-offering or the fat
Of victims, if I sail among your crew?
For this, as ye professed, was the chief cause
Why ye disowned me. Perish!--So ye shall,
For the wrong done me, if the Heavens be just.
And that they are, I know. Else had ye ne'er
Sailed on this errand for an outcast wretch,
Had they not pricked your heart with thoughts of me.
Oh, if ye pity me, chastising powers,
And thou, the Genius of my land, revenge,
Revenge this crime on all their heads at once!
My life is pitiable; but if I saw
Their ruin, I would think me well and strong.

CH. How full of bitterness is his resolve,
Wrathfully spoken with unbending will!

OD. I might speak long in answer, did the time
Give scope, but now one thing is mine to say.
I am known to vary with the varying need;
And when 'tis tried, who can be just and good,
My peer will not be found for piety.
But though on all occasions covetous
Of victory, this once I yield to thee,
And willingly. Unhand him there. Let go!
Leave him to stay. What further use of thee,
When we have ta'en these arms? Have we not Teucer,
Skilled in this mystery? Yea, I may boast
Myself thine equal both in strength and aim
To wield them. Fare thee well, then! Thou art free
To roam thy barren isle. We need thee not.
Let us be going! And perchance thy gift
May bring thy destined glory to my brow.

PHI. What shall I do? Alas, shalt thou be seen
Graced with mine arms amongst Achaean men?

OD. No more! I am going.

PHI.                     O Achilles' child!
Wilt thou, too, vanish? Must I lose thy voice?

OD. Come on, and look not, noble though thou be,
Lest thou undo our fortune.

PHI.                        Mariners,
Must ye, too, leave me thus disconsolate?
Will ye not pity me?

CH.                  Our captain's here.
Whate'er he saith to thee, that we too speak.

NEO. My chief will call me weakling, soft of heart;
But go not yet, since our friend bids you stay.
Till we have prayed, and all be ready on board.
Meanwhile, perchance, he may conceive some thought
That favours our design. We two will start;
And ye, be swift to speed forth at our call.                   [_Exit_

MONODY.

PHI. O cavern of the hollow rock,                                  I 1
Frosty and stifling in the seasons' change!
How I seem fated never more to range
From thy sad covert, that hath felt the shock
Of pain on pain, steeped with my wretchedness.
Now thou wilt be my comforter in death!
Grief haunted harbour, choked with my distress!
Tell me, what hope is mine of daily food,
Who will be careful for my good?
I fail. Ye cowering creatures of the sky,
          Oh, as ye fly,
Snatch me, borne upward on the blast's sharp breath!

CH. 1. Thou child of misery!
        No mightier power hath this decreed,
        But thine own will and deed
        Hath bound thee thus in grief,
Since, when kind Heaven had sent relief
And shown the path of wisdom firm and sure,
Thou still hast chosen this evil to endure.

PHI. O hapless life, sore bruised with pain!                       I 2
No more with living mortal may I dwell,
But ever pining in this desert cell
With lonely grief, all famished must remain
And perish; for what food is mine to share,
When this strong arm no longer wields my bow,
Whose fleet shafts flew to smite the birds of air
I was o'erthrown by words, words dark and blind,
Low-creeping from a traitorous mind!
O might I see him, whose unrighteous thought
          This ruin wrought,
Plagued for no less a period with like woe!

CH. 2. Not by our craft thou art caught,
But Destiny divine hath wrought
        The net that holds thee bound.
        Aim not at us the sound
Of thy dread curse with dire disaster fraught.
On others let that light! 'Tis our true care
Thou should'st not scorn our love in thy despair.

PHI. Now, seated by the shore                                     II 1
    Of heaving ocean hoar,
    He mocks me, waving high
    The sole support of my precarious being,
    The bow which none e'er held but I.
O treasure of my heart, torn from this hand,
That loved thy touch,--if thou canst understand,
How sad must be thy look in seeing
Thy master destined now no more,
Like Heracles of yore,
To wield thee with an archer's might!
But in the grasp of an all-scheming wight,
O bitter change! thou art plied;
And swaying ever by his side,
Shalt view his life of dark malignity,
Teeming with guileful shames, like those he wrought on me.

CH. 3. Nobly to speak for the right
    Is manly and strong;
    But not with an envious blight
    To envenom the tongue;
    He to serve all his friends of the fleet,
    One obeying a many-voiced word,
    Through the minist'ring craft of our lord
    Hath but done what was meet.

PHI. Come, legions of the wild,                                   II 2
    Of aspect fierce or mild,
    Fowl from the fields of air,
    And beasts that roam with bright untroubled gaze,
    No longer bounding from my lair
    Fly mine approach! Now freely without fear
    Ye may surround my covert and come near,
    Treading the savage rock-strewn ways.
    The might I had is no more mine,
    Stolen with those arms divine.
    This fort hath no man to defend.
    Come satisfy your vengeful jaws, and rend
    These quivering tainted limbs!
    Already hovering death bedims
    My fainting sense. Who thus can live on air,
    Tasting no gift of earth that breathing mortals share?

CH. 4.  Ah! do not shrink from thy friend,
        If love thou reverest,
        But know 'tis for thee to forfend
        The fate which thou fearest.
        The lot thou hast here to deplore,
        Is sad evermore to maintain,
        And hardship in sickness is sore,
        But sorest in pain.

PHI. Kindest of all that e'er before                               III
Have trod this shore,
Again thou mind'st me of mine ancient woe!
Why wilt thou ruin me? What wouldst thou do?

CH. 5. How mean'st thou?

PHI.                     If to Troy, of me abhorred
Thou e'er hast hoped to lead me with thy lord.

CH. 6. So I judge best.

PHI.                    Begone at once, begone!

CH. 7. Sweet is that word, and swiftly shall be done!
Let us be gone, each to his place on board.
                              [The Chorus _make as if they were going_

PHI. Nay, by dear Zeus, to whom all suppliants moan
Leave me not yet!

CH. 8.            Keep measure in thy word.

PHI. Stay, by Heaven, stay!

CH. 9. What wilt thou say?

PHI. O misery! O cruel power
That rul'st this hour!
I am destroyed. Ah me!
O poor torn limb, what shall I do with thee
Through all my days to be?
Ah, strangers, come, return, return!

CH. 10. What new command are we to learn
Crossing thy former mind?

PHI. Ah! yet be kind.
Reprove not him, whose tongue, with grief distraught,
Obeys not, in dark storms, the helm of thought!

CH. 11. Come, poor friend, the way we call.

PHI. Never, learn it once for all!
Not though he, whom Heaven obeys,
Blast me with fierce lightning's blaze!
Perish Troy, and all your host,
That have chosen, to their cost,
To despise and cast me forth,
Since my wound obscured my worth!
Ah, but, strangers, if your sense
Hath o'er-mastered this offence,
Yield but one thing to my prayer!

CH. 12. What wouldst thou have?

PHI.                            Some weapon bare,
Axe or sword or sharpened dart,
Bring it to content my heart.

CH. 13. What is thy new intent?

PHI. To sever point by point
This body, joint from joint.
On bloody death my mind is bent.

CH. 14. Wherefore?

PHI.               To see my father's face.

CH. 15. Where upon earth?

PHI.                      He hath no place
Where sun doth shine, but in the halls of night.
O native country, land of my delight,
Would I were blest one moment with thy sight!
Why did I leave thy sacred dew
And loose my vessels from thy shore,
To join the hateful Danaaen crew
And lend them succour? Oh, I am no more!

LEADER OF CH.
Long since thou hadst seen me nearing yonder ship,
Had I not spied Odysseus and the son
Of great Achilles hastening to our side.

OD. Wilt thou not tell me why thou art hurrying
This backward journey with reverted speed?

NEO. To undo what I have wrongly done to-day.

OD. Thy words appal me. What is wrongly done?

NEO. When in obeying thee and all the host--

OD. Thou didst what deed that misbecame thy life?

NEO. I conquered with base stratagem and fraud--

OD. Whom? What new plan is rising in thy mind?

NEO. Not new. But to the child of Poeas here--

OD. What wilt thou do? I quake with strange alarm.

NEO. From whom I took these weapons, back again----

OD. O Heaven! thou wilt not give them! Mean'st thou this?

NEO. Yea, for I have them through base sinful means.

OD. I pray thee, speak'st thou thus to anger me?

NEO. If the truth anger thee, the truth is said.

OD. Achilles' son! What word is fallen from thee?

NEO. Must the same syllables be thrice thrown forth?

OD. Once was too much. Would they had ne'er been said!

NEO. Enough. Thou hast heard my purpose clearly told.

OD. I know what power shall thwart thee in the deed.

NEO. Whose will shall hinder me?

OD.                              The Achaean host
And I among them.

NEO.              Thou'rt sharp-witted, sure!
But little wit or wisdom show'st thou here.

OD. Neither thy words nor thy design is wise.

NEO. But if 'tis righteous, that is better far.

OD. How righteous, to release what thou hast ta'en
By my device?

NEO.          I sinned a shameful sin,
And I will do mine utmost to retrieve it.

OD. How? Fear'st thou not the Achaeans in this act?

NEO. In doing right I fear not them nor thee.

OD. I call thy power in question.

NEO.                              Then I'll fight,
Not with Troy's legions, but with thee.

OD.                                     Come on!
Let fortune arbitrate.

NEO.                   Thou seest my hand
Feeling the hilt.

OD.               And me thou soon shalt see
Doing the like and dallying not!--And yet
I will not touch thee, but will go and tell
The army, that shall wreak this on thy head.                   [_Exit_

NEO. Thou show'st discretion: which if thou preserve,
Thou may'st maintain a path exempt from pain.
Ho! son of Poeas, Philoctetes, come
And leave thy habitation in the rock.

PHI. What noise again is troubling my poor cave?
Why do ye summon me? What crave ye, sirs?
Ha! 'tis some knavery. Are ye come to add
Some monster evil to my mountainous woe?

NEO. Fear not, but hearken to what now I speak.

PHI. I needs must fear thee, whose fair words erewhile
Brought me to bitter fortune.

NEO.                          May not men
Repent and change?

PHI.               Such wast thou in thy talk,
When thou didst rob me of my bow,--so bright
Without, so black within.

NEO.                      Ah, but not now,
Assure thee! Only let me hear thy will,
Is 't constant to remain here and endure,
Or to make voyage with us?

PHI.                       Stop, speak no more!
Idle and vain will all thine utterance be.

NEO. Thou art so resolved?

PHI.                       More firmly than I say.

NEO. I would I might have brought thee to my mind,
But since my words are out of tune, I have done.

PHI. Thou wert best. No word of thine can touch my soul
Or win me to thy love, who by deceit
Hast reft my life away. And then thou com'st
To school me,--of noblest father, basest son!
Perish, the Atridae first of all, and then
Laertes' child, and thou!

NEO.                      Curse me no more,
But take this hallowed weapon from my hand.

PHI. What words are these? Am I again deceived?

NEO. No, by the holiest name of Zeus on high!

PHI. O voice of gladness, if thy speech be true!

NEO. The deed shall prove it. Only reach thy hand,
And be again sole master of thy bow.               [ODYSSEUS _appears_

OD. But I make protest, in the sight of Heaven,
For Atreus' sons, and all the Achaean host.

PHI. Dear son, whose voice disturbs us? Do I hear
Odysseus?

OD.       Ay, and thou behold'st him nigh,
And he shall force thee to the Trojan plain,
Howe'er Achilles' offspring make or mar.

PHI. This shaft shall bear thee sorrow for that boast.

NEO. Let it not fly, by Heaven!

PHI.                            Dear child, let go
Mine arm!

NEO.      I will not.                                 [_Exit_ ODYSSEUS

PHI.                  Ah! Why hast thou robbed
My bow of bringing down mine enemy?

NEO. This were ignoble both for thee and me.

PHI. One thing is manifest, the first o' the host
Lying forerunners of the Achaean band,
Are brave with words, but cowards with the steel.

NEO. Well, now the bow is thine. Thou hast no cause
For blame or anger any more 'gainst me.

PHI. None. Thou hast proved thy birthright, dearest boy.
Not from the loins of Sisyphus thou earnest,
But from Achilles, who in life was held
Noblest of men alive, and now o' the dead.

NEO. It gladdens me that thou shouldst speak in praise
Both of my sire and me. But hear me tell
The boon for which I sue thee.--Mortal men
Must bear such evils as high Heaven ordains;
But those afflicted by self-chosen ills,
Like thine to-day, receive not from just men
Or kind indulgence or compassionate thought.
And thou art restive grown, and wilt not hearken,
But though one counsel thee with kind'st intent,
Wilt take him for a dark malignant foe.
Yet, calling Zeus to witness for my soul,
Once more I will speak. Know this, and mark it well:
Thou bear'st this sickness by a heavenly doom,
Through coming near to Chrysa's sentinel,
The lurking snake, that guards the sky-roofed fold[7].
And from this plague thou ne'er shall find reprieve
While the same Sun god rears him from the east
And droops to west again, till thou be come
Of thine own willing mind to Troia's plain,
Where our physicians, sons of Phoebus' child[8],
Shall soothe thee from thy sore, and thou with me
And with this bow shalt take Troy's citadel.
How do I know this? I will tell thee straight
We have a Trojan captive, Helenus,
Both prince and prophet, who hath clearly told
This must be so, yea, and ere harvest time
This year, great Troy must fall, else if his words
Be falsified, who will may slay the seer.
Now, since thou know'st of this, yield thy consent;
For glorious is the gain, being singled forth
From all the Greeks as noblest, first to come
To healing hands, and then to win renown
Unrivalled, vanquishing all tearful Troy.

PHI. Oh how I hate my life! Why must it keep
This breathing form from sinking to the shades?
How can I prove a rebel to his mind
Who thus exhorts me with affectionate heart?
And yet, oh misery! must I give way?
Then how could I endure the light of heaven?
With whom could I exchange a word? Ay me!
Eyes that have seen each act of my sad life,
How could ye bear it, to behold the sons
Of Atreus, my destroyers, comrades now
And friends! Laertes' wicked son, my friend!
And less I feel the grief of former wrong
Than shudder with expectance of fresh harm
They yet may work on me. For when the mind
Hath once been mother of an evil brood,
It nurses nought but evils. Yea, at thee
I marvel. Thou should'st ne'er return to Troy,
Nor suffer me to go, when thou remember'st
What insult they have done thee, ravishing
Thy father's rights from thee. And wilt thou then
Sail to befriend them, pressing me in aid?
Nay, do not, son; but, even as thou hast sworn,
Convey me home, and thou, in Scyros dwelling,
Leave to their evil doom those evil men.
So thou shalt win a twofold gratitude
From me and from my father, and not seem,
Helping vile men, to be as vile as they.

NEO. 'Tis fairly spoken. Yet I would that thou
Relying on my word and on Heaven's aid,
Would'st voyage forth from Lemnos with thy friend.

PHI. Mean'st thou to Troy, and to the hateful sons
Of Atreus, me, with this distressful limb?

NEO. Nay, but to those that will relieve the pain
Of thy torn foot and heal thee of thy plague.

PHI. Thy words are horrible. What mean'st thou, boy?

NEO. The act I deem the noblest for us both.

PHI. Wilt thou speak so? Where is thy fear of Heaven?

NEO. Why should I fear, when I see certain gain?

PHI. Gain for the sons of Atreus, or for me?

NEO. Methinks a friend should give thee friendly counsel.

PHI. Friendly, to hand me over to my foes?

NEO. Ah, be not hardened in thy misery!

PHI. I know thou wilt ruin me by what thou speakest.

NEO. Not I. The case is dark to thee, I see.

PHI. I know the Atreidae cast me on this rock.

NEO. But how, if they should save thee afterward?

PHI. They ne'er shall make me see Troy with my will.

NEO. Hard is my fortune, then, if by no sleight
Of reasoning I can draw thee to my mind.
For me, 'twere easiest to end speech, that thou
Might'st live on as thou livest in hopeless pain.

PHI. Then leave me to my fate!--But thou hast touched
My right hand with thine own, and given consent
To bear me to my home. Do this, dear son!
And do not linger to take thought of Troy.
Enough that name hath echoed in my groans.

NEO. If thou wilt, let us be going.

PHI.                                Nobly hast thou said the word.

NEO. Lean thy steps on mine.

PHI.                        As firmly as my foot will strength afford.

NEO. Ah! but how shall I escape Achaean anger?

PHI.                                           Do not care!

NEO. Ah! but should they spoil my country!

PHI.                                   I to shield thee will be there.

NEO. How to shield me, how to aid me?

PHI.                                  With the shafts of Heracles
I will scare them.

NEO.                Give thy blessing to this isle, and come in peace.

HERACLES _appears from above._

HERACLES. First, son of Poeas, wait till thou hast heard
The voice of Heracles, and weighed his word.
Him thou beholdest from the Heavenly seat
Come down, for thee leaving the blest retreat,
To tell thee all high Zeus intends, and stay
Thy purpose in the journey of to-day.
  Then hear me, first how after my long toils
By strange adventure I have found and won
Immortal glory, which thine eyes perceive;
And the like lot, I tell thee, shall be thine,
After these pains to rise to glorious fame.
Sailing with this thy comrade to Troy-town,
First thou shalt heal thee from thy grievous sore,
And then, being singled forth from all the host
As noblest, thou shalt conquer with that bow
Paris, prime author of these years of harm,
And capture Troy, and bear back to thy hall
The choicest guerdon, for thy valour's meed,
To Oeta's vale and thine own father's home.
But every prize thou tak'st be sure thou bear
Unto my pyre, in memory of my bow.
  This word, Achilles' offspring, is for thee
No less. For, as thou could'st not without him,
So, without thee, he cannot conquer Troy.
Then, like twin lions hunting the same hill,
Guard thou him, and he thee! and I will send
Asclepius Troyward to relieve thy pain.
For Ilion now a second time must fall
Before the Herculean bow. But, take good heed,
Midst all your spoil to hold the gods in awe.
For our great Father counteth piety
Far above all. This follows men in death,
And fails them not when they resign their breath.

PHI. Thou whom I have longed to see,
    Thy dear voice is law to me.

NEO. I obey with gladdened heart.

HER. Lose no time: at once depart!
    Bright occasion and fair wind
    Urge your vessel from behind.

PHI. Come, let me bless the region ere I go.
    Poor house, sad comrade of my watch, farewell!
    Ye nymphs of meadows where soft waters flow
    Thou ocean headland, pealing thy deep knell,
    Where oft within my cavern as I lay
    My hair was moist with dashing south-wind's spray,
    And ofttimes came from Hermes' foreland high
    Sad replication of my storm-vext cry;
    Ye fountains and thou Lycian water sweet,--
    I never thought to leave you, yet my feet
    Are turning from your paths,--we part for aye.
    Farewell! and waft me kindly on my way,
    O Lemnian earth enclosed by circling seas,
    To sail, where mighty Fate my course decrees,
    And friendly voices point me, and the will
    Of that heroic power, who doth this act fulfil.

CH. Come now all in one strong band;
    Then, ere loosing from the land,
    Pray we to the nymphs of sea
    Kind protectresses to be,
    Till we touch the Trojan strand.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                          OEDIPUS AT COLONOS

                             THE PERSONS

OEDIPUS, _old and blind._
ANTIGONE, _his daughter, a young girl._
ISMENE, _his daughter, a young girl._
CHORUS _of Village Guardians._
_An Athenian._
THESEUS, _King of Athens._
CREON, _Envoy from Thebes._
POLYNICES, _the elder son of Oedipus._
_Messenger._

SCENE. Colonos.

Oedipus had remained at Thebes for some time after his fall. But he
was afterwards banished by the command of Creon, with the consent of
his own sons. Their intention at first was to lay no claim to the
throne. But by-and-by ambition prevailed with Eteocles, the younger-
born, and he persuaded Creon and the citizens to banish his elder
brother. Polynices took refuge at Argos, where he married the daughter
of Adrastus, and levied an army of auxiliaries to support his
pretensions to the throne of Thebes. Before going into exile Oedipus
had cursed his sons.

Antigone after a while fled forth to join her father and support him
in his wanderings. Ismene also once brought him secret intelligence.

Years have now elapsed, and the Delphian oracle proclaims that if
Oedipus dies in a foreign land the enemies of Thebes shall overcome
her.

In ignorance of this fact, Oedipus, now aged as well as blind, and led
by his daughter Antigone, appears before the grove of the Eumenides,
at Colonos, in the neighbourhood of Athens. He has felt an inward
intimation, which is strengthened by some words of the oracle received
by him long since at Delphi, that his involuntary crimes have been
atoned for, and that the Avenging Deities will now receive him kindly
and make his cause their own.

After some natural hesitation on the part of the village-councillors
of Colonos, Oedipus is received with princely magnanimity by Theseus,
who takes him under the protection of Athens, and defends him against
the machinations of Creon.

Thus the blessing of the Gods, which Oedipus carried with him, is
secured to Athens, and denied to Thebes. The craft of Creon and the
prayers of Polynices alike prove unavailing. Then the man of many
sorrows, whose essential nobleness has survived them all, passes away
mysteriously from the sight of men.

The scene is laid at Colonos, a suburb of Athens much frequented by
the upper classes, especially the Knights (see Thuc. viii. 67); and
before the sacred grove of the Eumenides, or Gentle Goddesses, a
euphemistic title for the Erinyes, or Goddesses of Vengeance.

                          OEDIPUS AT COLONOS

OEDIPUS. ANTIGONE.

OEDIPUS. Antigone, child of the old blind sire,
What land is here, what people? Who to-day
Shall dole to Oedipus, the wandering exile,
Their meagre gifts? Little I ask, and less
Receive with full contentment; for my woes,
And the long years ripening the noble mind,
Have schooled me to endure.--But, O my child,
If thou espiest where we may sit, though near
Some holy precinct, stay me and set me there,
Till we may learn where we are come. 'Tis ours
To hear the will of strangers and to obey.

ANTIGONE. Woe-wearied father, yonder city's wall
That shields her, looks far distant; but this ground
Is surely sacred, thickly planted over
With olive, bay and vine, within whose bowers
Thick-fluttering song-birds make sweet melody.
Here then repose thee on this unhewn stone.
Thou hast travelled far to-day for one so old.

OED. Seat me, my child, and be the blind man's guard.

ANT. Long time hath well instructed me in that.

OED. Now, canst thou tell me where we have set our feet?

ANT. Athens I know, but not the nearer ground.

OED. Ay, every man that met us in the way
Named Athens.

ANT.          Shall I go, then, and find out
The name of the spot?

OED.                  Yes, if 'tis habitable.

ANT. It is inhabited. Yet I need not go.
I see a man even now approaching here.

OED. How? Makes he towards us? Is he drawing nigh?

ANT. He is close beside us. Whatsoe'er thou findest
Good to be spoken, say it. The man is here.

_Enter an_ Athenian.

OED. O stranger, learning from this maid, who sees
Both for herself and me, that thou art come
With timely light to clear our troubled thought--

ATHENIAN. Ere thou ask more, come forth from where thou sittest!
Ye trench on soil forbidden human tread.

OED. What soil? And to what Power thus consecrate?

ATH. None may go near, nor dwell there. 'Tis possessed
By the dread sisters, children of Earth and Night.

OED. What holy name will please them, if I pray?

ATH. 'All seeing Gentle Powers' the dwellers here
Would call them. But each land hath its own rule.

OED. And gently may they look on him who now
Implores them, and will never leave this grove!

ATH. What saying is this?

OED.                      The watchword of my doom.

ATH. Yet dare I not remove thee, till the town
Have heard my purpose and confirm the deed.

OED. By Heaven, I pray thee, stranger, scorn me not,
Poor wanderer that I am, but answer me.

ATH. Make clear thy drift. Thou'lt get no scorn from me.

OED. Then, pray thee, tell me how ye name the place
Where now I sit.

ATH.             The region all around
Is sacred. For 'tis guarded and possessed
By dread Poseidon, and the Titan mind
That brought us fire--Prometheus. But that floor
Whereon thy feet are resting, hath been called
The brazen threshold of our land, the stay
Of glorious Athens, and the neighbouring fields
Are fain to honour for their patron-god
Thee, O Colonos, first of Knights, whose name  [_Pointing to a statue_
They bear in brotherhood and own for theirs.
Such, friend, believe me, is this place, not praised
In story, but of many a heart beloved.

OED. Then is the land inhabited of men?

ATH. By men, who name them from Colonos there.

OED. Have they a lord, or sways the people's voice?

ATH. Lord Theseus, child of Aegeus, our late king.

OED. Will some one of your people bring him hither?

ATH. Wherefore? What urgent cause requires his presence?

OED. He shall gain mightily by granting little.

ATH. Who can gain profit from the blind?

OED.                                     The words
These lips shall utter, shall be full of sight.

ATH. Well, thou look'st nobly, but for thy hard fate.
This course is safe. Thus do. Stay where I found thee,
Till I go tell the neighbour townsmen here
Not of the city, but Colonos. They
Shall judge for thee to abide or to depart.                    [_Exit_

OED. Tell me, my daughter, is the man away?

ANT. He is gone, father. I alone am near.
Speak what thou wilt in peace and quietness.

OED. Dread Forms of holy Fear, since in this land
Your sanctuary first gave my limbs repose,
Be not obdurate to my prayer, nor spurn
The voice of Phoebus, who that fateful day,
When he proclaimed my host of ills to come,
Told me of rest after a weary time,
Where else but here? 'When I should reach my bourne,
And find repose and refuge with the Powers
Of reverend name, my troubled life should end
With blessing to the men who sheltered me,
And curses on their race who banished me
and sent me wandering forth.' Whereof he vouched me
Sure token, or by earthquake, or by fire
From heaven, or thundrous voices. And I know
Some aery message from your shrine hath drawn me
With winged whisper to this grove. Not else
Had ye first met me coming, nor had I
Sate on your dread unchiselled seat of stone,
With dry cold lips greeting your sober shrine.
Then give Apollo's word due course, and give
Completion to my life, if in your sight
These toils and sorrows past the human bound
Seem not too little. Kindly, gentle powers,
Offspring of primal darkness, hear my prayer!
Hear it, Athenai, of all cities queen,
Great Pallas' foster-city! Look with ruth
On this poor shadow of great Oedipus,
This fading semblance of his kingly form.

ANT. Be silent now. There comes an aged band
With jealous looks to know thine errand here.

OED. I will be silent, and thine arm shall guide
My footstep under covert of the grove
Out of the path, till I make sure what words
These men will utter. Warily to observe
Is the prime secret of the prudent mind.                     [_Exeunt_

CHORUS (_entering_).
    Keep watch! Who is it? Look!                                     1
Where is he? Vanished! Gone! Oh where?
    Most uncontrolled of men!
    Look well, inquire him out,
    Search keenly in every nook!
    --Some wanderer is the aged wight,
    A wanderer surely, not a native here.
    Else never had he gone within
    The untrodden grove
Of these--unmarried, unapproachable in might,
    --Whose name we dare not breathe,
    But pass their shrine
    Without a look, without a word,
Uttering the unheard voice of reverential thought.
    But now, one comes, they tell, devoid of awe,
    Whom, peering all around this grove
    I find not, where he abideth.

OED. (_behind_).
Behold me! For I 'see by sound,'
As mortals say.

CH. Oh, Oh!
With horror I see him, with horror hear him speak.

OED. Pray you, regard me not as a transgressor!

CH. Defend us, Zeus! Who is that aged wight?

OED. Not one of happiest fate,
Or enviable, O guardians of this land!
'Tis manifest; else had I not come hither
Led by another's eyes, not moored my bark
On such a slender stay.

CH. Alas! And are thine eyes                                         2
Sightless? O full of misery,
    As thou look'st full of years!
    But not, if I prevail,
    Shalt thou bring down this curse.
    Thou art trespassing. Yet keep thy foot
    From stumbling in that verdant, voiceless dell,
    Where running water as it fills
    The hallowed bowl,
Mingles with draughts[1] of honey. Stranger, hapless one!
    Avoid that with all care.
    Away! Remove!
    Distance impedes the sound. Dost hear,
Woe-burdened wanderer? If aught thou carest to bring
    Before our council, leave forbidden ground,
    And there, where all have liberty,
    Speak,--but till then, avaunt thee!

OED. Daughter, what must I think, or do?

ANT.                                     My sire!
We must conform us to the people's will,
Yielding ere they compel.

OED.                      Give me thy hand.

ANT. Thou hast it.

OED.              --Strangers, let me not
Be wronged, when I have trusted you
And come from where I stood!

CH. Assure thee, from this seat
No man shall drag thee off against thy will.

OED. Farther?

CH.           Advance thy foot.

OED.                            Yet more?

CH.                                       Assist him onward
Maiden, thou hast thy sight.

ANT. Come, follow, this way follow with thy darkened steps,
Father, the way I am leading thee.

CH. Content thee, sojourning in a strange land,
O man of woe!
To eschew whate'er the city holds in hate,
And honour what she loves!

OED.                       Then do thou lead me, child,
Where with our feet secure from sin
We may be suffered both to speak and hear.
Let us not war against necessity.

CH. There! From that bench of rock
Go not again astray.

OED. Even here?

CH.             Enough, I tell thee.

OED.                                 May I sit?

CH. Ay, crouch thee low adown
Crooking thy limbs, upon the stone.

ANT. Father, this task is mine--
Sink gently down into thy resting-place,

OED. Woe is me!

ANT. Supporting on this loving hand
Thy reverend aged form.

OED. Woe, for my cruel fate!                      [OEDIPUS _is seated_

CH. Now thou unbendest from thy stubborn ways,
O man of woe!
Declare, what mortal wight thou art,
That, marked by troublous fortune, here art led.
What native country, shall we learn, is thine?

OED. O strangers, I have none!
But do not--

CH.         What dost thou forbid, old sir?

OED. Do not, oh, do not ask me who I am,
Nor probe me with more question.

CH.                              What dost thou mean?

OED. My birth is dreadful.

CH.                        Tell it forth.

OED. What should I utter, O my child? Woe is me!

CH. Thy seed, thy father's name, stranger, pronounce!

OED. Alas! What must I do? My child!

ANT. Since no resource avails thee, speak!

OED. I will. I cannot hide it further.

CH. Ye are long about it. Haste thee!

OED.                                  Know ye of one
Begotten of Laius?

CH.                Horror! Horror! Oh!

OED. Derived from Labdacus?

CH.                         O Heaven!

OED. Fate-wearied Oedipus?

CH.                        Art thou he?

OED. Fear not my words.

CH.                     Oh! Oh!

OED. Unhappy me!

CH.              Oh!

OED.                 Daughter, what is coming?

CH. Away! Go forth. Leave ye the land. Begone!

OED. And where, then, is the promise thou hast given?

CH. No doom retributive attends the deed
That wreaks prevenient wrong.
Deceit, matched with deceit, makes recompense
Of evil, not of kindness. Get thee forth!
Desert that seat again, and from this land
Unmooring speed thee away, lest on our state
Thou bring some further bale!

MONODY.

ANT. O strangers, full of reverent care!
Since ye cannot endure my father here,
Aged and blind,
Because ye have heard a rumour of the deeds
He did unknowingly,--yet, we entreat you.
Strangers, have pity on me, the hapless girl,
Who pray for mine own sire and for none else,
--Pray, looking in your eyes with eyes not blind.
As if a daughter had appeared to you.
Pleading for mercy to the unfortunate.
We are in your hands as in the hand of God,
Helpless. O then accord the unhoped for boon!
By what is dear to thee, thy veriest own,
I pray thee,--chattel or child, or holier name!
Search through the world, thou wilt not find the man
Who could resist the leading of a God.

CH. Daughter of Oedipus, be well assured
We view with pity both thy case and his,
But fear of Heavenly wrath confines our speech
To that we have already said to you.

OED. What profit lives in fame and fair renown
By unsubstantial rumour idly spread?
When Athens is extolled with peerless praise
For reverence, and for mercy!--She alone
The sufferer's shield, the exile's comforter!
What have I reaped hereof? Ye have raised me up
From yonder seat, and now would drive me forth
Fearing a name! For there is nought in me
Or deeds of mine to make you fear. My life
Hath more of wrong endured than of wrong done,
Were it but lawful to disclose to you
Wherefore ye dread me,--not my sin but theirs,
My mother's and my sire's. I know your thought.
Yet never can ye fasten guilt on me,
Who, though I had acted with the clear'st intent,
Were guiltless, for my deed requited wrong.
But as it was, all blindly I went forth
On that dire road, while they who planned my death
Planned it with perfect knowledge. Therefore, sirs,
By Heaven I pray you, as ye have bid me rise,
Protect your suppliant without fail; and do not
In jealous reverence for the blessed Gods
Rob them of truest reverence, but know this:--
God looks upon the righteousness of men
And their unrighteousness, nor ever yet
Hath one escaped who wrought iniquity.
Take part, then, with the Gods, nor overcloud
The golden fame of Athens with dark deeds;
But as ye have pledged your faith to shelter me,
Defend me and rescue, not rejecting me
Through mere abhorrence of my ruined face.
For on a holy mission am I come,
Sent with rich blessings for your neighbours here.
And when the head and sovereign of your folk
Is present, ye shall learn the truth at full.
Till then, be gracious to me, and not perverse.

CH. Thy meaning needs must strike our hearts with awe,
Old wanderer! so weighty are the words
That body it forth. Therefore we are content
The Lord of Athens shall decide this case.

OED. And where is he who rules this country, sirs?

CH. He keeps his father's citadel. But one
Is gone to fetch him, he who brought us hither.

OED. Think you he will consider the blind man,
And come in person here to visit him?

CH. Be sure he will,--when he hath heard thy name.

OED. And who will carry that?

CH.                           'Tis a long road;
But rumour from the lips of wayfarers
Flies far and wide, so that he needs must hear;
And hearing, never doubt but he will come.
So noised in every land hath been thy name,
Old sovereign,--were he sunk in drowsiness,
That sound would bring him swiftly to thy side.

OED. Well, may he come to bless his city and me!
When hath not goodness blessed the giver of good?

ANT. O Heavens! What shall I say, what think, my father?

OED. Daughter Antigone, what is it?

ANT.                                I see
A woman coming toward us, mounted well
On a fair Sicilian palfrey, and her face
With brow-defending hood of Thessaly
Is shadowed from the sun. What must I think?
Is it she or no? Can the eye so far deceive?
It is. 'Tis not. Unhappy that I am,
I know not.--Yes, 'tis she. For drawing near
She greets me with bright glances, and declares
Beyond a doubt, Ismene's self is here.

OED. What say'st thou, daughter?

ANT.                             That I see thy child,
My sister. Soon her voice will make thee sure.

_Enter_ ISMENE.

ISMENE. Father and sister!--names for ever dear!
Hard hath it been to find you, yea, and hard
I feel it now to look on you for grief.

OED. Child, art thou here?

ISM.                       Father! O sight of pain!

OED. Offspring and sister!

ISM.                       Woe for thy dark fate!

OED. Hast thou come, daughter?

ISM.                           On a troublous way.

OED. Touch me, my child!

ISM.                     I give a hand to both.

OED. To her and me?

ISM.                Three linked in one sad knot.

OED. Child, wherefore art thou come?

ISM.                                 In care for thee.

OED. Because you missed me?

ISM.                        Ay, and to bring thee tidings,
With the only slave whom I could trust.

OED.                                    And they,
Thy brethren, what of them? Were they not there
To take this journey for their father's good?

ISM. Ask not of them. Dire deeds are theirs to day.

OED. How in all points their life obeys the law
Of Egypt, where the men keep house and weave
Sitting within doors, while the wives abroad
Provide with ceaseless toil the means of life.
So in your case, my daughters, they who should
Have ta'en this burden on them, bide at home
Like maidens, while ye take their place, and lighten
My miseries by your toil. Antigone,
E'er since her childhood ended, and her frame
Was firmly knit, with ceaseless ministry
Still tends upon the old man's wandering,
Oft in the forest ranging up and down
Fasting and barefoot through the burning heat
Or pelting rain, nor thinks, unhappy maid,
Of home or comfort, so her father's need
Be satisfied. And thou, that camest before,
Eluding the Cadmeans, and didst tell me
What words Apollo had pronounced on me.
And when they banished me, stood'st firm to shield me,
What news, Ismene, bring'st thou to thy sire
To day? What mission sped thee forth? I know
Thou com'st not idly, but with fears for me.

ISM. Father, I will not say what I endured
In searching out the place that sheltered thee.
To tell it o'er would but renew the pain.
But of the danger now encompassing
Thine ill starred sons,--of that I came to speak.
At first they strove with Creon and declared
The throne should be left vacant and the town
Freed from pollution,--paying deep regard
In their debate to the dark heritage
Of ruin that o'ershadowed all thy race.
Far different is the strife which holds them now,
Since some great Power, joined to their sinful mind,
Incites them both to seize on sovereign sway.
Eteocles, in pride of younger years,
Robbed elder Polynices of his right,
Dethroned and banished him. To Argos then
Goes exiled Polynices, and obtains
Through intermarriage a strong favouring league,
Whose word is, 'Either Argos vanquishes
The seed of Cadmus or exalts their fame'
This, father, is no tissue of empty talk,
But dreadful truth, nor can I tell where Heaven
Is to reveal his mercy to thy woe.

OED. And hadst thou ever hoped the Gods would care
For mine affliction, and restore my life?

ISM. I hope it now since this last oracle.

OED. What oracle hath been declared, my child?

ISM. That they shall seek thee forth, alive or dead,
To bring salvation to the Theban race.

OED. Who can win safety through such help as mine?

ISM. 'Tis said their victory depends on thee.

OED. When shrunk to nothing, am I indeed a man?

ISM. Yea, for the Gods uphold thee, who then destroyed.

OED. Poor work, to uphold in age who falls when young!

ISM. Know howsoe'er that Creon will be here
For this same end, ere many an hour be spent.

OED. For what end, daughter? Tell me in plain speech.

ISM. To set thee near their land, that thou may'st be
Beyond their borders, but within their power.

OED. What good am I, thus lying at their gate?

ISM. Thine inauspicious burial brings them woe.

OED. There needs no oracle to tell one that.

ISM. And therefore they would place thee near their land,
Where thou may'st have no power upon thyself.

OED. Say then, shall Theban dust o'ershadow me?

ISM. The blood of kindred cleaving to thy hand,
Father, forbids thee.

OED.                  Never, then, henceforth,
Shall they lay hold on me!

ISM.                       If that be true,
The brood of Cadmus shall have bale.

OED.                                 What cause
Having appeared, will bring this doom to pass?

ISM. Thy wrath, when they are marshalled at thy tomb.

OED. From whom hast thou heard this?

ISM.                                 Sworn messengers
Brought such report from Delphi's holy shrine.

OED. Hath Phoebus so pronounced my destiny?

ISM. So they declare who brought the answer back.

OED. Did my sons hear?

ISM.                   They know it, both of them.

OED. Villains, who, being informed of such a word,
Turned not their thoughts toward me, but rather chose
Ambition and a throne!

ISM.                   It wounds mine ear
To hear it spoken, but the news I bring
Is to that stern effect.

OED.                     Then I pray Heaven
The fury of their fate-appointed strife
May ne'er be quenched, but that the end may come
According to my wish upon them twain
To this contention and arbitrament
Of battle which they now assay and lift
The threatening spear! So neither he who wields
The sceptred power should keep possession still,
Nor should his brother out of banishment
Ever return:--who, when their sire--when I
Was shamefully thrust from my native land,
Checked not my fall nor saved me, but, for them,
I was driven homeless and proclaimed an exile.
Ye will tell me 'twas in reason that the State
Granted this boon to my express desire.
Nay; for in those first hours of agony,
When my heart raged, and it seemed sweetest to me
To die the death, and to be stoned with stones,
No help appeared to yield me that relief.
But after lapse of days, when all my pain
Was softened, and I felt that my hot spirit
Had run to fierce excess of bitterness
In wreaking mine offence--then, then the State
Drove me for ever from the land, and they,
Their father's sons, who might have saved their father,
Cared not to help him, but betrayed by them,
For lack of one light word, I wandered forth
To homeless banishment and beggary.
But these weak maidens to their nature's power
Have striven to furnish me with means to live
And dwell securely, girded round with love.
My sons have chosen before their father's life
A lordly throne and sceptred sovereignty.
But never shall they win me to their aid,
Nor shall the Theban throne for which they strive
Bring them desired content. That well I know,
Comparing with my daughter's prophecies
Those ancient oracles which Phoebus once
Spake in mine ear. Then let them send to seek me
Creon, or who is strongest in their State.
For if ye, strangers, will but add your might
To the protection of these awful Powers,
The guardians of your soil, to shelter me,
Ye shall acquire for this your State a saviour
Mighty to save, and ye shall vex my foes.

CH. Thou art worthy of all compassion, Oedipus,
Thyself and these thy daughters. Now, moreover
Since thou proclaim'st thyself our country's saviour
I would advise thee for the best.

OED.                              Kind sir,
Be my good guide. I will do all thou biddest.

CH. Propitiate then these holy powers, whose grove
Received thee when first treading this their ground.

OED. What are the appointed forms? Advise me, sirs.

CH. First see to it that from some perennial fount
Clean hands provide a pure drink-offering.

OED. And when I have gotten this unpolluted draught?

CH. You will find bowls, formed by a skilful hand,
Whose brims and handles you must duly wreathe.

OED. With leaves or flocks of wool, or in what way?

CH. With tender wool ta'en from a young ewe-lamb.

OED. Well, and what follows to complete the rite?

CH. Next, make libation toward the earliest dawn.

OED. Mean'st thou from those same urns whereof thou speakest?

CH. From those three vessels pour three several streams,
Filling the last to the brim.

OED.                          With what contents
Must this be filled? Instruct me.

CH.                               Not with wine,
But water and the treasure of the bee.

OED. And when leaf-shadowed Earth has drunk of this,
What follows?

CH.           Thou shalt lay upon her then
From both thy hands a row of olive-twigs--
Counting thrice nine in all--and add this prayer--

OED. That is the chief thing,--that I long to hear.

CH. As we have named them Gentle, so may they
From gentle hearts accord their suppliant aid;--
Be this thy prayer, or whoso prays for thee,
Spoken not aloud, but so that none may hear;
And in departing, turn not. This being done,
I can stand by thee without dread. But else,
I needs must fear concerning thee.

OED.                               My daughters,
Have ye both heard our friends who inhabit here?

ANT. Yea, father; and we wait for thy command.

OED. I cannot go. Two losses hinder me,
Two evils, want of strength and want of sight.
Let one of you go and perform this service.
One soul, methinks, in paying such a debt
May quit a million, if the heart be pure.
Haste, then, to do it. Only leave me not
Untended. For I cannot move alone
Nor without some one to support me and guide.

ISM. I will be ministrant. But let me know
Where I must find the place of offering.

CH. Beyond this grove. And, stranger maid, if aught
Seem wanting, there is one at hand to show it.

ISM. Then to my task. Meantime, Antigone,
Watch by our sire. We must not make account
Of labour that supplies a parent's need.                       [_Exit_

CH. Thy long since slumbering woe I would not wake again,          I 1
But yet I long to learn.

OED.                     What hidden lore?

CH.                                        The pain
That sprang against thy life with spirit-mastering force.

OED. Ah, sirs, as ye are kind, re-open not that source
Of unavoided shame.

CH.                 Friend, we would hear the tale
Told truly, whose wide voice doth hourly more prevail.

OED. Misery!

CH.          Be not loth!

OED.                      O bitterness!

CH.                                     Consent.
For all thou didst require we gave to thy content.

OED. Oh, strangers, I have borne an all-too-willing brand,         I 2
Yet not of mine own choice.

CH.                         Whence? We would understand.

OED. Nought knowing of the curse she fastened on my head
Thebe in evil bands bound me.

CH.                           Thy mother's bed,
Say, didst thou fill? mine ear still echoes to the noise.

OED. 'Tis death to me to hear, but, these, mine only joys,
Friends, are my curse.

CH.                    O Heaven!

OED.                             The travail of one womb
Hath gendered all you see, one mother, one dark doom.

CH. How? Are they both thy race, and--                            II 1

OED.                                  Sister branches too,
Nursed at the self-same place with him from whom they grew.

CH. O horror!

OED.          Ay, not one, ten thousand charged me then!

CH. O sorrow!

OED.          Never done, an ever-sounding strain.

CH. O crime!

OED.         By me ne'er wrought.

CH.                               But how?

OED.                                       The guerdon fell.
Would I had earned it not from those I served too well.

CH. But, hapless, didst thou slay--                               II 2

OED.                               What seek ye more to know?

CH. Thy father?

OED.            O dismay! Ye wound me, blow on blow.

CH. Thy hand destroyed him.

OED.                        Yes. Yet lacks there not herein
A plea for my redress.

CH.                    How canst thou clear that sin?

OED. I'll tell thee. For the deed, 'twas proved mine,--Oh 'tis true!
Yet by Heaven's law I am freed:--I wist not whom I slew.

CH. Enough. For lo! where Aegeus' princely son,
Theseus, comes hither, summoned at thy word.

_Enter_ THESEUS.

THESEUS. From many voices in the former time
Telling thy cruel tale of sight destroyed
I have known thee, son of Laius, and to-day
I know thee anew, in learning thou art here.
Thy raiment, and the sad change in thy face,
Proclaim thee who thou art, and pitying thee,
Dark-fated Oedipus, I fain would hear
What prayer or supplication thou preferrest
To me and to my city, thou and this
Poor maid who moves beside thee. Full of dread
Must be that fortune thou canst name, which I
Would shrink from, since I know of mine own youth,
How in strange lands a stranger as thou art
I bore the brunt of perilous circumstance
Beyond all others; nor shall any man,
Like thee an alien from his native home,
Find me to turn my face from succouring him.
I am a man and know it. To-morrow's good
Is no more mine than thine or any man's.

OED. Thy noble spirit, Theseus, in few words
Hath made my task of utterance brief indeed.
Thou hast told aright my name and parentage
And native city. Nought remains for me
But to make known mine errand, and our talk
Is ended.

THE.      Tell me plainly thy desire.

OED. I come to offer thee this woe-worn frame,
As a free boon,--not goodly in outward view.
A better gift than beauty is that I bring.

THE. What boon dost thou profess to have brought with thee?

OED. Thou shalt know by and by,--not yet awhile.

THE. When comes the revelation of thine aid?

OED. When I am dead, and thou hast buried me.

THE. Thou cravest the last kindness. What's between
Thou dost forget or else neglect.

OED.                              Herein
One word conveys the assurance of the whole.

THE. You sum up your petition in brief form.

OED. Look to it. Great issues hang upon this hour.

THE. Mean'st thou in this the fortune of thy sons
Or mine?

OED.     I mean the force of their behest
Compelling my removal hence to Thebes.

THE. So thy consent were sought, 'twere fair to yield.

OED. Once I was ready enough. They would not then.

THE. Wrath is not wisdom in misfortune, man!

OED. Nay, chide not till thou knowest.

THE.                                   Inform me, then!
I must not speak without just grounds.

OED.                                   O Theseus,
I am cruelly harassed with wrong heaped on wrong.

THE. Mean'st thou that prime misfortune of thy birth?

OED. No. That hath long been rumoured through the world.

THE. What, then, can be thy grief? If more than that,
'Tis more than human.

OED.                  Here is my distress:--
I am made an outcast from my native land
By mine own offspring. And return is barred
For ever to the man who slew his sire.

THE. How then should they require thee to go near,
And yet dwell separate?

OED.                    The voice of Heaven
Will drive them to it.

THE.                   As fearing what reverse
Prophetically told?

OED.                Destined defeat
By Athens in the Athenian land.

THE.                            What source
Of bitterness 'twixt us and Thebes can rise?

OED. Dear son of Aegeus, to the Gods alone
Comes never Age nor Death. All else i' the world
Time, the all subduer, merges in oblivion.
Earth and men's bodies weaken, fail, and perish.
Faith withers, breach of faith springs up and glows
And neither men nor cities that are friends
Breathe the same spirit with continuing breath.
Love shall be turned to hate, and hate to love
With many hereafter, as with some to-day.
And though, this hour, between great Thebes and thee
No cloud be in the heaven, yet moving Time
Enfolds a countless brood of days to come,
Wherein for a light cause they shall destroy
Your now harmonious league with severing war,
Even where my slumbering form, buried in death,
Coldly shall drink the life blood of my foes,
If Zeus be Zeus, and his son Phoebus true.
I would not speak aloud of mysteries.
Then let me leave where I began. Preserve
Thine own good faith, and thou shalt never say,
Unless Heaven's promise fail me, that for nought
Athens took Oedipus to dwell with her.

CH. My lord, long since the stranger hath professed
Like augury of blessings to our land.

THE. And who would dare reject his proffered good?
Whose bond with us of warrior amity
Hath ne'er been sundered,--and to day he comes
A God-sent suppliant, whose sacred hand
Is rich with gifts for Athens and for me.
In reverent heed whereof I ne'er will scorn
The boon he brings, but plant him in our land.
And if it please our friend to linger here,
Ye shall protect him:--if to go with me
Best likes thee, Oedipus,--ponder, and use
Thy preference. For my course shall join with thine.

OED. Ye Heavens, reward such excellence!

THE.                                     How, then?
Is it thy choice now to go home with me?

OED. Yea, were it lawful. But in this same spot--

THE. What wouldst thou do? I'll not withstand thy will.

OED. I must have victory o'er my banishers.

THE. Thy dwelling with us, then, is our great gain?

OED. Yes, if thou fail me not, but keep thy word.

THE. Nay, fear not me! I will aye be true to thee.

OED. I will not bind thee, like a knave, with oaths.

THE. Oaths were no stronger than my simple word.

OED. What will ye do, then?

THE.                        What is that thou fearest?

OED. They will come hither.

THE.                        Thy guards will see to that.

OED. Beware, lest, if you leave me--

THE.                                Tell not me,
I know my part.

OED.            Terror will have me speak.

THE. Terror and I are strangers.

OED.                             But their threats!
Thou canst not know--

THE.                 I know that none shall force
Thee from this ground against thy will. Full oft
Have threatening words in wrath been voluble,
Yet, when the mind regained her place again,
The threatened evil vanished. So to-day
Bold words of boastful meaning have proclaimed
Thy forcible abduction by thy kin.
Yet shall they find (I know it) the voyage from Thebes,
On such a quest, long and scarce navigable.
Whate'er my thought, if Phoebus sent thee forth,
I would bid thee have no fear. And howsoe'er,
My name will shield thee from all injury.

CHORUS.
Friend! in our land of conquering steeds thou art come             I 1
To this Heaven-fostered haunt, Earth's fairest home,
Gleaming Colonos, where the nightingale
In cool green covert warbleth ever clear,
True to the clustering ivy and the dear
    Divine, impenetrable shade,
From wildered boughs and myriad fruitage made,
Sunless at noon, stormless in every gale.
Wood-roving Bacchus there, with mazy round,
And his nymph nurses range the unoffended ground.

And nourished day by day with heavenly dew                         I 2
Bright flowers their never-failing bloom renew,
From eldest time Deo and Cora's crown
Full-flowered narcissus, and the golden beam
Of crocus, while Cephisus' gentle stream
    In runnels fed by sleepless springs
Over the land's broad bosom daily brings
His pregnant waters, never dwindling down.
The quiring Muses love to seek the spot
And Aphrodite's golden car forsakes it not.

Here too a plant, nobler than e'er was known                      II 1
On Asian soil, grander than yet hath grown
In Pelops' mighty Dorian isle, unsown,
  Free, self-create, the conquering foeman's fear,
The kind oil-olive, silvery-green,
Chief nourisher of childish life, is seen
To burgeon best in this our mother-land.
No warrior, young, nor aged in command,
  Shall ravage this, or scathe it with the spear;
  For guardian Zeus' unslumbering eye
  Beholds it everlastingly,
And Athens' grey-eyed Queen, dwelling for ever near.

Yet one more praise mightier than all I tell                      II 2
O'er this my home, that Ocean loves her well,
  And coursers love her, children of the wave
To grace these roadways Prince Poseidon first
Framed for the horse, that else had burst
From man's control, the spirit taming bit
And the trim bark, rowed by strong arms, doth flit
  O'er briny seas with glancing motion brave
  Lord of the deep! by that thy glorious gift
Thou hast established our fair town
For ever in supreme renown--
The Sea nymphs' plashing throng glide not more smoothly swift.

ANT. O land exalted thus in blessing and praise,
Now is thy time to prove these brave words true.

OED. What hath befallen, my daughter?

ANT.                                  Here at hand,
Not unaccompanied, is Creon, father.

OED. Dear aged friends, be it yours now to provide
My safety and the goal of my desire!

CH. It shall be so. Fear nought. I am old and weak,
But Athens in her might is ever young.

_Enter_ CREON.

CREON. Noble inhabiters of Attic ground
I see as 'twere conceived within your eyes
At mine approach some new engendered fear
Nay, shrink not, nor let fall one fretful word.
I bring no menace with me, for mine age
Is feeble, and the state whereto I come
Is mighty,--none in Hellas mightier,--
That know I well. But I am sent to bring
By fair persuasion to our Theban plain
The reverend form of him now present here.
Nor came this mission from one single will,
But the commands of all my citizens
Are on me, seeing that it becomes my birth
To mourn his sorrows most of all the state
Thou, then, poor sufferer, lend thine ear to me
And come. All Cadmus' people rightfully
Invite thee with one voice unto thy home,
I before all,--since I were worst of men,
Were I not pained at thy misfortunes, sir,
--To see thee wandering in the stranger's land
Aged and miserable, unhoused, unfed,
Singly attended by this girl, whose fall
To such a depth of undeserved woe
I could not have imagined! Hapless maid!
Evermore caring for thy poor blind head,
Roving in beggary, so young, with no man
To marry her,--a mark for all mischance.
O misery, what deep reproach I have laid
On thee and me and our whole ill-starred race!
But who can hide evil that courts the day?
Thou, therefore, Oedipus, without constraint,
(By all the Gods of Cadmus' race I pray thee)
Remove this horror from the sight of men
By coming to the ancestral city and home
Of thy great sires,--bidding a kind farewell
To worthiest Athens, as is meet. But Thebes,
Thy native land, yet more deserves thy love.

OED. Thou unabashed in knavery, who canst frame
For every cause the semblance of a plea
Pranked up with righteous seeming, why again
Would'st thou contrive my ruin, and attempt
To catch me where I most were grieved being caught?
Beforetime, when my self-procured woes
Were plaguing me, and I would fain have rushed
To instant banishment, thou wouldst not then
Grant this indulgence to my keen desire.
But when I had fed my passion to the full,
And all my pleasure was to live at home,
Then 'twas thy cue to expel and banish me,
Nor was this name of kindred then so dear.
Now once again, when thou behold'st this city
And people joined in friendly bands with me,
Thou wouldst drag me from my promised resting-place,
Hiding hard policy with courtly show.
Strange kindness, to love men against their will!
Suppose, when thou wert eager in some suit,
No grace were granted thee, but all denied,
And when thy soul was sated, then the boon
Were offered, when such grace were graceless now;
--Poor satisfaction then were thine, I ween!
Even such a gift thou profferest me to-day,
Kind in pretence, but really full of evil.
These men shall hear me tell thy wickedness.
Thou comest to take me, not unto my home,
But to dwell outlawed at your gate, that so
Your Thebe may come off untouched of harm
From her encounter with Athenian men.
Ye shall not have me thus. But you shall have
My vengeful spirit ever in your land
Abiding for destruction,--and my sons
Shall have this portion in their father's ground,
To die thereon. Know I not things in Thebes
Better than thou? Yea, for 'tis mine to hear
Safer intelligencers,--Zeus himself,
And Phoebus, high interpreter of Heaven.
Thou bring'st a tongue suborned with false pretence,
Sharpened with insolence;--but in shrewd speech
Thou shalt find less of profit than of bane.
This thou wilt ne'er believe. Therefore begone!
Let me live here. For even such life as mine
Were not amiss, might I but have my will.

CR. Which of us twain, believ'st thou, in this talk
Hath more profoundly sinned against thy peace?

OED. If thou prevail'st with these men present here
Even as with me, I shall be well content.

CR. Unhappy man, will not even Time bring forth
One spark of wisdom to redeem thine age?

OED. Thou art a clever talker. But I know
No just man who in every cause abounds
With eloquent speech.

CR.                   'Tis not to abound in speech,
When one speaks fitting words in season.

OED.                                     Oh!
As if thy words were few and seasonable!

CR. Not in the dotard's judgement.

OED.                               Get thee gone!
I speak their mind as well--and dog not me
Beleaguering mine appointed dwelling-place!

CR. These men shall witness--for thy word is naught;
And for thy spiteful answer to thy friends,
If once I seize thee--

OED.                  Who shall seize on me
Without the will of my protectors here?

CR. Well, short of that, thou shalt have pain, I trow.

OED. What hast thou done, that thou canst threaten thus?

CR. One of thy daughters I have sent in charge.
This other, I myself will quickly take.

OED. Oh, cruel!

CR.             Soon thou'lt have more cause to cry.

OED. Hast thou my child?

CR.                      I will have both ere long.

OED. Dear friends, what will ye do? Will ye forsake me?
Will you not drive the offender from your land?

CH. Stranger, depart at once! Thou hast done wrong,
And wrong art doing.

CR. (_to attendants_).
                     Now then, lead her away
By force, if she refuse to go with you.

ANT. Ah me! unhappy! Whither shall I flee?
What aid of God or mortal can I find?

CH. What dost thou, stranger?

CR.                           I will lay no hand
On him, but on my kinswoman.

OED.                         Alas!
Lords of Colonos, will ye suffer it?

CH. Thou art transgressing, stranger.

CR.                                   Nay, I stand
Within my right.

CH.              How so?

CR.                      I take mine own.

OED. Athens to aid!

CH.                 Stranger, forbear! What dost thou?
Let go, or thou shalt try thy strength with us.

CR. Unhand me!

CH.            Not while this intent is thine.

CR. If you harm me, you will have war with Thebes.

OED. Did I not tell you this would come?

CH.                                      Release
The maid with speed.

CR.                  Command where you have power.

CH. Leave hold, I say!

CR.                    Away with her, say I!

CH. Come hither, neighbours, come!
My city suffers violence. Wrongful men
Are hurting her with force. Come hither to me!

ANT. Unhappy, I am dragged away,--O strangers!

OED. Where art thou, O my child?

ANT.                             I go away
Against my will.

OED.             Reach forth thy hands, my daughter!

ANT. I cannot.

CR.            Off with her!

OED.                         Alas, undone! [_Exit_ ANTIGONE, _guarded_

CR. Thou shalt not have these staves henceforth to prop
Thy roaming to and fro. Take thine own way!
Since thou hast chosen to thwart thy nearest kin,--
Beneath whose orders, though a royal man,
I act herein,--and thine own native land.
The time will surely come when thou shalt find
That in this deed and all that thou hast done
In opposition to their friendly will,
Thou hast counselled foolishly against thy peace,
Yielding to anger, thy perpetual bane.                        [_Going_

CH. Stranger, stand where thou art!

CR.                                 Hands off, I say!

CH. Thou shalt not go, till thou restore the maids.

CR. Soon, then, my city shall retain from you
A weightier cause of war. I will lay hands
Not on the maidens only.

CH.                      What wilt thou do?

CR. Oedipus I will seize and bear away.

CH. Great Heaven forfend!

CR.                       It shall be done forthwith,
Unless the ruler of this land prevent me.

OED. O shameless utterance! Wilt thou lay thy hold
On me?

CR.    Be silent! Speak no more!

OED.                             No more?
May these dread Goddesses not close my lips
To this one prayer of evil against thee,
Thou villain, who, when I have lost mine eyes,
Bereavest me of all that I had left
To make my darkness light! Therefore I pray,
For this thy wrongful act, may He in heaven
Whose eye sees all things, Helios, give to thee
Slowly to wither in an age like mine!

CR. Men of this land, bear witness to his rage!

OED. They see us both, and are aware that I
Repay thee but with words for deeds of wrong.

CR. No longer will I curb my wrath. Though lonely
And cumbered by mine age, I will bear off
This man!

OED.      Me miserable!

CH.                     How bold thou art,
If standing here thou think'st to do this thing!

CR. I do.

CH.       Then Athens is to me no city.

CR. Slight men prevail o'er strength in a just cause.

OED. Hear ye his words?

CH.                     He shall not make them good.
Be witness, Zeus!

CR.               Zeus knows more things than thou.

OED. Is not this violence?

CR.                        Violence you must bear.

CH. Come, chieftain of our land!
Come hither with all speed. They pass the bound.

_Enter_ THESEUS.

THE. Wherefore that shouting? Daunted by what fear
Stayed ye me sacrificing to the God[2]
Who guards this deme Colonos? Let me know
What cause so hastened my reluctant foot.

OED. Dear friend (I know thy voice addressing us),
One here hath lately done me cruel wrong.

THE. Who is the wrong-doer, say, and what the deed?

OED. This Creon, whom thou seest, hath torn away
Two children that were all in all to me.

THE. Can this be possible?

OED.                       Thou hear'st the truth.

THE. Then one of you run to the altar-foot
Hard by, and haste the people from the rite,
Horsemen and footmen at the height of speed
To race unto the parting of the roads
Where travellers from both gorges wont to meet.
Lest there the maidens pass beyond our reach
And I be worsted by this stranger's might
And let him laugh at me. Be swift! Away!
--For him, were I as wroth as he deserves,
He should not go unpunished from my hand.
But now he shall be ruled by the same law
He thought to enforce. Thou goest not from this ground
Till thou hast set these maids in presence here;
Since by thine act thou hast disgraced both me
And thine own lineage and thy native land,
Who with unlicensed inroad hast assailed
An ancient city, that hath still observed
Justice and equity, and apart from law
Ratifies nothing; and, being here, hast cast
Authority to the winds, and made thine own
Whate'er thou wouldst, bearing it off perforce,--
Deeming of me forsooth as nothing worth,
And of my city as one enslaved to foes
Or void of manhood. Not of Thebe's will
Come such wild courses. It is not her way
To foster men in sin, nor would she praise
Thy doing, if she knew that thou hast robbed
Me and the gods, dragging poor suppliant wights
From their last refuge at thy will--I would not,
Had I perchance set foot within thy land,
Even were my cause most righteous, have presumed,
Without consent of him who bore chief sway,
To seize on any man, but would have known
How men should act who tread on foreign soil.
Thou bring'st disgrace on thine own mother state
All undeservedly, and the lapse of years
Hath left thee aged, but not wise--Again
I bid those maids now to be brought with speed,
Unless thou would'st be made a sojourner
In Athens by compulsion. This I speak
Not with my lips alone, but from my will.

CH. Stranger, dost thou perceive? Thy parentage
Is owned as noble, but thine evil deeds
Are blazoned visibly.

CR.                   Great Aegeus' son!
Not as misprising this thy city's strength
In arms, or wisdom in debate, I dared
This capture, but in simple confidence
Thy citizens would not so envy me
My blood relations, as to harbour them
Against my will,--nor welcome to their hearths
A man incestuous and a parricide,
The proved defiler of his mother's bed
Such was the mount of Ares that I knew,
Seat of high wisdom, planted in their soil,
That suffers no such lawless runaways
To haunt within the borders of your realm.
Relying on that I laid my hands upon
This quarry, nor had done so, were it not
That bitterly he cursed myself and mine.
That moved me to requital, since even Age
Still bears resentment, till the power of death
Frees men from anger, as from all annoy.
Being sovereign here thou wilt do thy pleasure. I,
Though I have justice on my side, am weak
Through being alone. Yet if you meddle with me,
Old as I am, you'll find me dangerous.

OED. O boldness void of shame! Whom dost thou think
Thy obloquy most harms, this aged head
Or thine, who hast thus let pass thy lips the crimes
I have borne unwittingly. So Heaven was pleased
To wreak some old offence upon our race.
Since in myself you will find no stain of sin
For which such ruinous error 'gainst myself
And mine own house might be the recompense.
Tell me, I pray thee, if a word from Heaven
Came to my father through the oracle
That he should die by his son's hand,--what right
Hast thou to fasten that reproach on me,
The child not yet begotten of my sire,
An unborn nothing, unconceived? Or if,
Born as I was to misery, I encountered
And killed my father in an angry fray,
Nought knowing of what I did or whom I slew,
What reason is't to blame the unwitting deed?
And, oh, thou wretch! art not ashamed to force me
To speak that of my mother, thine own sister,
Which I will speak, for I will not keep silence,
Since thou hast been thus impious with thy tongue.
She was my mother, oh, the bitter word!
Though neither knew it, and having borne me, she
Became the mother of children to her son,
An infamous birth! Yet this I know, thy crime
Of speech against us both is voluntary.
But all involuntary was my deed
In marriage and is this mine utterance now.
No,--that shall not be called a bosom-sin,
Nor shall my name be sullied with the deed,
Thy tongue would brand on me, against my sire.
For answer me one question. If to-day,
Here, now, one struck at thee a murderous stroke,--
At thee, the righteous person,--wouldst thou ask
If such assailant were thy sire, or strike
Forthwith? Methinks, as one who cares to live,
You would strike before you questioned of the right,
Or reasoned of his kindred whom you slew.
Such was the net that snared me: such the woes
Heaven drew me to fulfil. My father's spirit,
Came he to life, would not gainsay my word.
But thou, to whom, beneath the garb of right,
No matter is too dreadful or too deep
For words, so rail'st on me, in such a presence.
Well thou dost flatter the great name of Theseus,
And Athens in her glory stablished here,
But midst thy fulsome praises thou forgettest
How of all lands that yield the immortal Gods
Just homage of true piety, this land
Is foremost. Yet from hence thou would'st beguile
Me, the aged suppliant. Nay, from hence thou would'st drag
Myself with violence, and hast reft away
My children. Wherefore I conjure these powers,
With solemn invocation and appeal,
To come and take my part, that thou may'st know
What men they are who guard this hallowed realm.

CH. My lord, the stranger deserves well. His fate
Is grievous, but the more demands our aid.

THE. Enough of words. The captors and their prey
Are hasting;--we, they have wronged, are standing still.

CR. I am powerless here. What dost thou bid me do?

THE. Lead us the way they are gone. I too must be
Thine escort, that if hereabout thou hast
Our maidens, thou mayest show them to my sight.
But if men flee and bear them, we may spare
Superfluous labour. Others hotly urge
That business, whom those robbers shall not boast
Before their Gods to have 'scaped out of this land.
Come, be our guide! Thou hast and hast not. Fortune
Hath seized thee seizing on thy prey. So quickly
Passes the gain that's got by wrongful guile.
Nay, thou shalt have no helper. Well I wot
Thou flew'st not to this pitch of truculent pride
Alone, or unsupported by intrigue;
But thy bold act hath some confederate here.
This I must look into, nor let great Athens
Prove herself weaker than one single man.
Hast caught my drift? Or is my voice as vain
Now, as you thought it when you planned this thing?

CR. I will gainsay nought of what thou utterest here.
But once in Thebes, I too shall know my course.

THE. Threaten, but go! Thou, Oedipus, remain
In quietness and perfect trust that I,
If death do not prevent me, will not rest
Till I restore thy children to thy hand.

CHORUS.
  Soon shall the wheeling foes                                     I 1
Clash with the din of brazen-throated War.
  Would I were there to see them close,
Be the onset near or far!
Whether at Daphne's gorge to Phoebus dear,
  Or by the torch-lit shore
Where kind maternal powers for evermore
Guard golden mysteries of holy fear
  To nourish mortal souls
Whose voice the seal of silent awe controls
Imprinted by the Eumolpid minister.
  There, on that sacred way,
  Shall the divinest head
Of royal Theseus, rouser of the fray,
And those free maids, in their two squadrons led,
  Meet in the valorous fight
  That conquers for the right.

  Else, by the snow-capped rock,                                   I 2
Passing to westward, they are drawing nigh
The tract beyond the pasture high
  Where Oea feeds her flock.
The riders ride, the rattling chariots flee
  At racing speed.--'Tis done!
He shall be vanquished. Our land's chivalry
  Are valiant, valiant every warrior son
  Of Theseus.--On they run?
Frontlet and bridle glancing to the light,
Forward each steed is straining to the fight,
  Forward each eye and hand
  Of all that mounted band,
Athena's knighthood, champions of her name
And his who doth the mighty waters tame,
  Rhea's son that from of old
  Doth the Earth with seas enfold.

Strive they? Or is the battle still to be?                        II 1
    An eager thought in me
Is pleading, 'Soon must they restore
The enduring maid, whose kinsmen vex her sore!'
To-day shall Zeus perform his will.
The noble cause wins my prophetic skill.
Oh! had I wings, and like a storm-swift dove
Poised on some aery cloud might there descry
    The conflict from above,
Scouring the region with mine eye!

Sovran of Heaven, all-seeing Zeus, afford                         II 2
    Unto this nation's lord
Puissance to crown the fair emprise,
Thou, and all-knowing Pallas, thy dread child!
Apollo, huntsman of the wild,
--Thou and thy sister, who doth still pursue
Swift many-spotted stags,--arise, arise,
With love we pray you, be our champions true!
    Yea, both together come
To aid our people and our home!

LEADER OF CH.
Ah! wanderer friend, thou wilt not have to accuse
Thy seer of falsehood. I behold the maids
This way once more in safe protection brought.

OED. Where? Is it true? How say you?

ANT.                                 Father, father!
Oh that some God would give thee once to see
The man whose royal virtue brings us hither!

OED. My daughters, are ye there?

ANT.                             Saved by the arm
Of Theseus and his most dear ministers.

OED. Come near me, child, and let your father feel
The treasure he had feared for ever gone.

ANT. Not hard the boon which the heart longs to give.

OED. Where are ye, where?

ANT.                      Together we draw near.

OED. Loved saplings of a solitary tree!

ANT. A father's heart hides all.

OED.                             Staves of mine age!

ANT. Forlorn supporters of an ill-starred life!

OED. I have all I love; nor would the stroke of death
Be wholly bitter, with you standing by.
Press close to either side of me, my children;
Grow to your sire, and ye shall give me rest
From mine else lonely, hapless, wandering life.
And tell your tale as briefly as ye may,
Since at your age short speaking is enough.

ANT. Here is our saviour. He shall tell thee all,
And shorten labour both for us and thee.

OED. Think it not strange, dear friend, that I prolong
The unhoped-for greeting with my children here.
Full well I know, the joy I find in them
Springs from thee only, and from none beside.
Thou, thou alone hast saved them. May the Gods
Fulfil my prayer for thee and for thy land!
Since only in Athens, only here i' the world,
Have I found pious thought and righteous care,
And truth in word and deed. From a full heart
And thankful mind I thus requite thy love,
Knowing all I have is due to none but thee.
Extend to me, I pray thee, thy right hand,
O King, that I may feel thee, and may kiss,
If that be lawful, thy dear head! And yet
What am I asking? How can one like me
Desire of thee to touch an outlawed man,
On whose dark life all stains of sin and woe
Are fixed indelibly? I will not dare--
No, nor allow thee!--None but only they
Who have experience of such woes as mine
May share their wretchedness. Thou, where thou art
Receive my salutation, and henceforth
Continue in thy promised care of me
As true as to this moment thou hast proved.

THE. I marvel not at all if mere delight
In these thy daughters lengthened thy discourse,
Or led thee to address them before me.
That gives me not the shadow of annoy.
Nor am I careful to adorn my life
With words of praise, but with the light of deeds.
And thou hast proof of this. For I have failed
In nought of all I promised, aged King!
Here stand I with thy children in full life
Unharmed in aught the foe had threatened them.
And now why vaunt the deeds that won the day,
When these dear maids will tell them in thine ear?
But let me crave thy counsel on a thing
That crossed me as I came. Small though it seem
When told, 'tis worthy of some wonder, too.
Be it small or great, men should not let things pass.

OED. What is it, O son of Aegeus? Let me hear,
I am wholly ignorant herein.

THE.                         We are told
One, not thy townsman, but of kin to thee,
Hath come in unawares, and now is found
Kneeling at great Poseidon's altar, where
I sacrificed, what time ye called me hither.

OED. What countryman, and wherefore suppliant there?

THE. One thing alone I know. He craves of thee
Some speech, they say, that will not hold thee long.

OED. His kneeling there imports no trivial suit.

THE. All he desires, they tell me, is to come,
Have speech with thee, and go unharmed away.

OED. Who can he be that kneels for such a boon?

THE. Think, if at Argos thou a kinsman hast
Who might desire to obtain so much of thee.

OED. Dear friend! Hold there! No more!

THE.                                   What troubles thee?

OED. Ask it not of me!

THE.                   What? Speak plainly forth.

OED. Thy words have shown me who the stranger is.

THE. And who is he that I should say him nay?

OED. My son, O King,--hateful to me, whose tongue
Least of the world I could endure to hear.

THE. What pain is there in hearing? Canst thou not
Hear, and refuse to do what thou mislikest?

OED. My Lord, I have come to loathe his very voice.
I pray thee, urge me not to yield in this.

THE. Think that the God must be considered too,
The right of suppliants may compel thy care.

ANT. Father, give ear, though I be young that speak.
Yield to the scruple of the King, who claims
This reverence for his people's God, and yield
To us who beg our brother may come near.
Take heart! He will not force thee from thy will.
What harm can come of hearkening? Wisdom's ways
Reveal themselves through words. He is thy son.
Whence, were his heartless conduct against thee
Beyond redemption impious, O my sire,
Thy vengeance still would be unnatural.
Oh let him!--Others have had evil sons
And passionate anger, but the warning voice
Of friends hath charmed their mood. Then do not thou
Look narrowly upon thy present griefs,
But on those ancient wrongs thou didst endure
From father and from mother. Thence thou wilt learn
That evil passion ever ends in woe.
Thy sightless eyes are no light argument
To warn thee through the feeling of thy loss.
Relent and hear us! 'Tis a mere disgrace
To beg so long for a just boon. The King
Is kind to thee. Be generous in return.

OED. Child, your dear pleading to your hard request
Hath won me. Let this be as ye desire.
Only, my lord, if he is to come near,
Let no man's power molest my liberty.

THE. I need no repetition, aged friend,
Of that request. Vaunt will I not, but thou
Be sure, if Heaven protect me, thou art free.

CHORUS.
        Who, loving life, hath sought                              I 1
          To outlive the appointed span,
        Shall be arraigned before my thought
          For an infatuate man.
        Since the added years entail
          Much that is bitter,--joy
        Flies out of ken, desire doth fail,
          The longed-for moments cloy.
        But when the troublous life,
          Be it less or more, is past,
        With power to end the strife
          Comes rescuing Death at last.
Lo! the dark bridegroom waits! No festal choir
Shall grace his destined hour, no dance, no lyre!

        Far best were ne'er to be,                                 I 2
          But, having seen the day,
        Next best by far for each to flee
          As swiftly as each may,
        Yonder from whence he came:
          For once let Youth be there
        With her light fooleries, who shall name
          The unnumbered brood of Care?
        No trial spared, no fall!
          Feuds, battles, murders, rage,
        Envy, and last of all,
          Despised, dim, friendless age!
Ay, there all evils, crowded in one room,
Each at his worst of ill, augment the gloom.

Such lot is mine, and round this man of woe,                        II
  --As some grey headland of a northward shore
Bears buffets of all-wintry winds that blow,--
  New storms of Fate are bursting evermore
    In thundrous billows, borne
    Some from the waning light,
Some through mid-noon, some from the rising morn,
    Some from the realm of Night.

ANT. Ah! Who comes here? Sure 'tis the Argive man
Approaching hitherward, weeping amain.
And, father, it is he!

OED.                   Whom dost thou mean?

ANT. The same our thoughts have dwelt on all this while,
Polynices. He is here.

POLYNICES.             What shall I do?
I stand in doubt which first I should lament,
My own misfortune or my father's woe,
Whom here I find an outcast in his age
With you, my sisters, in the stranger land,
Clothed in such raiment, whose inveterate filth
Horridly clings, wasting his reverend form,
While the grey locks over the eye-reft brow
Wave all unkempt upon the ruffling breeze.
And likewise miserable appears the store
He bears to nourish that time-wasted frame.
Wretch that I am! Too late I learn the truth,
And here give witness to mine own disgrace,
Which is as deep as thy distress. Myself
Declare it. Ask not others of my guilt.
But seeing that Zeus on his almighty throne
Keeps Mercy in all he doth to counsel him,
Thou, too, my father, let her plead with thee!
The evil that is done may yet be healed;
It cannot be augmented. Art thou silent?
O turn not from me, father! Speak but once!
Wilt thou not answer, but with shame dismiss me
Voiceless, nor make known wherefore thou art wroth?
O ye his daughters, one with me in blood,
Say, will not ye endeavour to unlock
The stern lips of our unrelenting sire?
Let him not thus reject in silent scorn
Without response the suppliant of Heaven!

ANT. Thyself, unhappy one, say why thou camest.
Speech ofttimes, as it flows, touching some root
Of pity or joy, or even of hate, hath stirred
The dumb to utterance.

POL.                   I will tell my need:--
First claiming for protector the dread God
From whose high altar he who rules this land
Hath brought me under safe-guard of his power,
Scatheless to speak and hear and go my way.
His word, I am well assured, will be made good,
Strangers, by you, and by my sisters twain,
And by our sire.--Now let me name mine errand.
I am banished, father, from our native land,
Because, being elder-born, I claimed to sit
Upon thy sovereign throne. For this offence
Eteocles, thy younger son, exiled me,
Not having won the advantage in debate
Or trial of manhood, but through guileful art
Gaining the people's will. Whereof I deem
Thy Fury the chief author; and thereto
Prophetic voices also testify.
For when I had come to Dorian Argolis,
I raised, through marriage with Adrastus' child,
An army bound in friendly league with me,
Led by the men who in the Apian land
Hold first pre-eminence and honour in war,
With whose aid levying all that mighty host
Of seven battalions, I have deeply sworn
Either to die, or drive from Theban ground
Those who such wrongs have wrought. So far, so well.
But why come hither? Father, to crave thine aid
With earnest supplication for myself
And for my firm allies, who at this hour,
Seven leaders of seven bands embattled there,
Encompass Thebe's plain. Amphiaraus,
Foremost in augury, foremost in war,
First wields his warlike spear. Next, Oeneus' son,
Aetolian Tydeus; then Eteoclus
Of Argive lineage; fourth, Hippomedon,
Sent by his father Talaues, and the fifth
Is Capancus, who brags he will destroy
Thebe with desolating fire. The sixth,
Parthonopaeus, from the Arcadian glen
Comes bravely down, swift Atalanta's child,
Named from his mother's lingering maidenhood
Ere she conceived him. And the seventh am I,
Thy son, or if not thine, but the dire birth
Of evil Destiny, yet named thy son,
Who lead this dauntless host from Argolis
Against the Theban land. Now one and all
We pray thee on our knees, conjuring thee
As thou dost love these maids and thine own life,
My father, to forgive me, ere I go
To be revenged upon my brother there
Who drave me forth and robbed me of my throne.
If aught in prophecy deserves belief,
'Tis certain, whom thou favourest, those shall win.
Now by the wells whereof our fathers drank
And by the Gods they worshipped, hear our prayer,
Grant this petition: since alike in woe,
Alike in poverty and banishment,
Partakers of one destiny, thou and I
Cringe to the stranger for a dwelling place.
Whilst he at home, the tyrant, woe is me,
Laughs at us both in soft luxurious pride.
Whose might, so thou wilt favour my design,
I will lightly scatter in one little hour;
And plant thee in thy Theban palace home
Near to myself, hurling the usurper forth.
All this with thy consent I shall achieve,
But without thee, I forfeit life and all.

CH. For his sake who hath brought him, Oedipus,
Say what is meet, and let him go in peace.

OED. Ay, were it not the lord of all this land
Theseus, that brought him to me and desired
He might hear words from me,--never again
Had these tones fallen upon his ear. But now
That boon is granted him: he shall obtain,
Ere he depart, such utterance of my tongue,
As ne'er shall give him joy,--ne'er comfort thee,
Villain, who when possessed of the chief power
Which now thy brother holds o'er Theban land,
Didst banish me, thy father, who stand here,
To live in exile, clothed with such attire,
That moves thy tears now that thine own estate
Is fallen into like depth of struggling woe.
But tears are bootless. Howsoe'er I live,
I must endure, and hold thee still my murderer.
'Tis thou hast girt me round with misery,
'Tis thou didst drive me forth, and driven by thee
I beg my bread, a wandering sojourner.
Yea, had these daughters not been born to me
To tend me, I were dead, for all thou hast done.
They have rescued, they have nursed me. They are men,
Not women, in the strength of ministry.
Ye are another's, not my sons--For this
The eye of Destiny pursues thee still
Eager to light on thee with instant doom
If once that army move toward the town
Of ancient Thebes,--the _town_, no dearer name,
'City' or 'Country' shall beseem thy lip
Till ye both fall, stained with fraternal gore
Long since I launched that curse against you twain
Which here again I summon to mine aid,
That ye may learn what duty children owe
To a parent, nor account it a light thing
That ye were cruel sons to your blind sire.
These maidens did not so. Wherefore my curse
Prevails against thy prayer for Thebe's throne,
If ancient Zeus, the eternal lawgiver,
Have primal Justice for his counsellor.
Begone, renounced and fatherless for me,
And take with thee, vilest of villanous men,
This imprecation:--Vain be thine attempt
In levying war against thy father's race,
Frustrate be thy return to Argos' vale:
Die foully by a fratricidal hand
And foully slay him who hath banished thee!
Further, I bid the horror breathing gloom
Tartarean, of the vault that holds my sire,
To banish thee from that last home: I invoke
The Spirits who haunt this ground, and the fierce God
Who hath filled you both with this unnatural hate.--
Go now with all this in thine ears, and tell
The people of Cadmus and thy firm allies
In whom thou trustest, what inheritance
Oedipus hath divided to his sons.

CH. 'Tis pity for thee, prince, to have come at all;
And now we bid thee go the way thou camest.

POL. Alas! Vain enterprise, and hope undone!
Oh, my poor comrades! To what fatal end
I led you forth from Argos, woe is me!
I may not tell it you,--no, nor return.
In silence I must go to meet my doom.
Daughters of this inexorable sire,
Since now ye have heard his cruel curse on me,
Ah! in Heaven's name, my sisters, do not you
Treat me despitefully, but if, one day,
Our father's execration is fulfilled
And ye shall be restored to Theban ground,
Grace me with funeral honours and a tomb!
So shall this ample praise which ye receive
For filial ministration, in that day
Be more than doubled through your care for me.

ANT. Brother, I beg thee, listen to my prayer!

POL. Dearest Antigone, speak what thou wilt.

ANT. Turn back thy host to Argos with all speed,
And ruin not thyself and Thebe too.

POL. Impossible. If once I shrink for fear,
No longer may I lead them to the war.

ANT. But why renew thy rage? What benefit
Comes to thee from o'erturning thine own land?

POL. 'Tis shameful to remain in banishment,
And let my brother mock my right of birth.

ANT. Then seest thou not how true unto their aim
Our father's prophecies of mutual death
Against you both are sped?

POL.                       He speaks his wish.
'Tis not for me to yield.

ANT.                      O me, unhappy!
But who that hears the deep oracular sound
Of his dark words, will dare to follow thee?

POL. They will not hear of danger from my mouth.
Wise generals tell of vantage, not of bale.

ANT. Art thou then so resolved, O brother mine?

POL. I am. Retard me not! I must attend
To my dark enterprise, blasted and foiled
Beforehand by my father's angry curse.
But as for you, Heaven prosper all your way,
If ye will show this kindness in my death,
For nevermore in life shall ye befriend me!
Nay, cling to me no longer. Fare ye well.
Ye will behold my living form no more.

ANT. O misery!

POL.           Bewail me not.

ANT.                          And who
That saw thee hurrying forth to certain death
Would not bewail thee, brother?

POL.                            If Fate wills,
Why, I must die.

ANT.             Nay, but be ruled by me.

POL. Give me not craven counsel.

ANT.                             Woe is me,
To lose thee!

POL.          Heaven hath power to guide the event
Or thus or otherwise. Howe'er it prove,
I pray that ye may ne'er encounter ill.
All men may know, ye merit nought but good.
                   [_Exit. The sky is overcast--a storm is threatened_

CHORUS.
New trouble, strange trouble, deep laden with doom,                I 1
From the sight-bereft stranger seems dimly to loom!
      Or peers Fate through the gloom?
She will move toward her mark or through shining or shade;
Since no purpose of Gods ever idly was made.
Time sees the fulfilment, who lifteth to-day
What was lowly, and trampleth the lofty to clay.
      Thunder! Heavens! what a sound!

OED. My children! Would but some one in the place
Haste hither Theseus, noblest among men!

ANT. Wherefore, my father? What is thy desire?

OED. These winged thunders of the Highest will soon
Bear me away to the Unseen. Send quickly!

CHORUS.
Again, yonder crash through the fire-startled air                  I 2
Wing'd from Zeus, rushes down, till my thin locks of hair,
      Stiff with fear, upward stare.
My soul shrinks and cowers, for yon gleam from on high
Darts again! Ne'er in vain hath it leapt from the sky,
But flies forth amain to what task Zeus hath given.
I fear the unknown fatal edict of Heaven!
      Lightning glares all around!

OED. My daughters, the divinely promised end
Here unavoidably descends on me.

ANT. How dost thou know it? By what certain sign?

OED. I know it perfectly. Let some one go
With speed to bring the lord of Athens hither.

CHORUS.
Great Heaven, how above me, beside me, around,                    II 1
      Peals redoubled the soul-thrilling sound!
O our God, to this land, to our mother, if aught
Thou wouldst send with some darkness of destiny fraught,
Smile gently once more! With the good let me bear
      What of fortune soe'er,--
Taste no cup, touch no food, the doomed sinner may share.
      Zeus, to thee, Lord, I cry!

OED. Is the King coming? Will he find me alive,
My daughters, and with reason undisturbed?

ANT. Say wherefore dost thou crave with such desire
The clearness of an undistracted mind?

OED. I would fully render from a grateful soul
The boon I promised, when I gained my suit.

CHORUS (_looking towards Athens_).
Come, my chief! come with speed! Or, if haply at hand,            II 2
      On the height where the curved altars stand,
Thou art hallowing with oxen in sacrifice slain
Yonder shrine of Poseidon, dread lord of the main,
Hie thee hither! Be swift! The blind stranger intends
      To thee, to thy friends,
To thy city, for burdens imposed, just amends.
      Haste thee, King! Hear our cry!

_Enter_ THESEUS.

THE. Why sounds again from hence your joint appeal,
Wherein the stranger's voice is loudly heard?
Is it some lightning-bolt new-fallen from Zeus,
Or cloud-born hail that is come rattling down?
From Heavens so black with storm nought can surprise.

OED. Prince, thou art come to my desire. Some God
Hath happily directed this thy way.

THE. What is befallen? Son of Laius, tell!

OED. My path slopes downward, and before my death
I would confirm to Athens and to thee
My promised boon.

THE.              What sign dost thou perceive
That proves thine end so near?

OED.                           The Gods themselves
With herald voices are proclaiming it,
Nought failing of the fore-appointed signs.

THE. What are these tokens, aged monarch, say?

OED. The loud continual thunder, and the darts
That flash in volleys from the unconquered hand.

THE. I may not doubt thee; for thy speech, I feel,
Hath ample witness of prophetic power.
What must I do?

OED.            I will instruct thee now,
Aegeus' great son! in rites that shall remain
An ageless treasure to thy countrymen.
I will presently, with no man guiding me,
Conduct thee to the spot, where I must die.
This is thy secret, not to be revealed
To any one of men, or where 'tis hid
Or whereabout it lies. So through all time
This neighbouring[3] mound shall yield thee mightier aid
Than many a shield and help of alien spears.
More shalt thou learn, too sacred to divulge,
When yonder thou art come thyself alone.
Since to none other of these citizens
Nor even unto the children of my love
May I disclose it. 'Tis for thee to keep
Inviolate while thou livest, and when thy days
Have ending, breathe it to the foremost man
Alone, and he in turn unto the next
Successively. So shalt thou ever hold
Athens unravaged by the dragon brood[4].
Cities are numberless, and any one
May lightly insult even those who dwell secure.
For the eye of Heaven though late yet surely sees
When, casting off respect, men turn to crime.
Erechtheus' heir! let that be far from thee!
A warning needless to a man so wise!
Now go we--for this leading of the God
Is urgent--to the place, nor loiter more.
This way, my children! follow me! For I
Am now your guide, as ye were mine. Come on!
Nay, touch me not, but leave me of myself
To find the holy sepulchre, wherein
This form must rest beneath Athenian soil.
Come this way! Come! This way are leading me
Guide Hermes and the Queen of realms below.
O Light, all dark to me! In former time
Bright seemed thy shining! Now thy latest ray
Sheds vital influence o'er this frame. I go
To hide the close of my disastrous life
With Hades. Kind Athenian friend, farewell!
May'st thou, thy followers, and this glorious land
Be happy, and in your endless happiness
Remember him who blessed you in his death.                   [_Exeunt_

CHORUS.
Prince of the Powers Unseen,                                         1
  Durst we with prayers adore
Thee and thy viewless Queen,
  Your aid, Aidoneus, would our lips implore!
By no harsh-sounding doom
    Let him we love descend,
    With calm and cloudless end,
  In deep Plutonian dwelling evermore
To abide among the people of the tomb!
Long worn with many an undeserved woe,
Just Gods will give thee glory there below.

Dread Forms, who haunt this floor,                                   2
  And thou, the Unconquered Beast,
  That hugely liest at rest
By the dim shining adamantine door,
--Still from thy cavernous lair
  Gnarling, so legends tell,
  A tameless guard of Hell,--
Mayest thou this once thy vigilance forbear,
And leave large room for him now entering there.
Hear us, great Son of Darkness and the Deep;
On thee we call, God of the dreamless sleep!

_Enter_ Messenger.

MESS. Athenian citizens, my briefest tale
Were to say singly, Oedipus is gone;
But to describe the scene enacted yonder
Craves no brief speech, nor was the action brief.

CH. Then he is gone! Poor man!

MESS.                          Know it once for all,
He hath left eternally the light of day.

CH. Poor soul! What? Ended he with peace divine?

MESS. Ay, there is the main marvel. How he moved
From hence, thou knowest, for thou too wert here,
And saw'st that of his friends none guided him,
But he they loved was leader to them all.
Now, when he came to the steep pavement, rooted
With adamant foundation deep in Earth,
On one of many paths he took his stand
Near the stone basin, where Peirithoues
And Theseus graved their everlasting league.
There, opposite the mass of Laurian ore,
Turned from the hollow pear-tree and the tomb
Of marble, he sate down, and straight undid
His travel-soiled attire, then called aloud
On both his children, and bade some one fetch
Pure water from a running stream. And they,
Hasting together to the neighbouring hill
Of green Demeter, goddess of the Spring,
Brought back their sire's commission speedily,
And bathed, and clothed him with the sacred robe.
When he was satisfied, and nothing now
Remained undone of all he bade them do,
The God of darkness thundered, and the maids
Stood horror-stricken on hearing; then together
Fell at their father's knees and wept and wailed
Loudly and long with beating of the breast.
He, when that sound of sorrow pierced his ear,
Caressed them in his arms and said:--'My daughters,
From this day forth you have no more a father.
All that was mine is ended, and no longer
Shall ye continue your hard ministry
Of labour for my life.--And yet, though hard,
Not unendurable, since all the toil
Was rendered light through love, which ye can never
Receive on earth so richly, as from him
Bereaved of whom ye now shall live forlorn.'
Such was the talk, mingled with sobs and crying,
As each clung fast to each. But when they came
To an end of weeping and those sounds were stilled,
First all was silent; then a sudden voice
Hurried him onward, making each man's hair
Bristle on end with force of instant fear.
Now here, now there, not once but oftentimes,
A God called loudly, 'Oedipus, Oedipus!
Why thus delay our going? This long while
We are stayed for and thou tarriest. Come away!'
He, when he knew the summons of the God,
Gave word for royal Theseus to go near;
And when he came, said: 'Friend for ever kind,
Reach thy right hand, I pray thee (that first pledge)
To these my children:--daughters, yours to him!--
And give thy sacred word that thou wilt never
Betray these willingly: but still perform
All that thou mayest with true thought for their good.'
He, with grand calmness like his noble self,
Promised on oath to keep this friendly bond.
And when he had done so, Oedipus forthwith
Stroking his children with his helpless hands
Spake thus:--'My daughters, you must steel your hearts
To noble firmness, and depart from hence,
Nor ask to see or hear forbidden things.
Go, go at once! Theseus alone must stay
Sole rightful witness of these mysteries.'
Those accents were the last we all might hear.
Then, following the two maids, with checkless tears
And groans we took our way. But by and by,
At distance looking round, we saw,--not him,
Who was not there,--but Theseus all alone
Holding his hand before his eyes, as if
Some apparition unendurable
Had dazed his vision. In a little while,
We marked him making reverence in one prayer
To the Earth, and to the home of Gods on high.
But by what fate He perished, mortal man,
Save Theseus, none can say. No lightning-flash
From heaven, no tempest rising from the deep,
Caused his departure in that hour, but either
Some messenger from heaven, or, from beneath,
The lower part of Earth, where comes no pain,
Opening kindly to receive him in.
Not to be mourned, nor with a tearful end
Of sickness was he taken from the Earth,
But wondrously, beyond recorded fate.
If any deem my words unwise, I care not
In that man's judgement to be counted wise.

CH. Where are those maidens and their escort? Say.

MESS. They are not far off, but here. The voice of weeping
Betokens all too plainly their approach.

ANT. Alas!
How manifold, the inheritance of woe
Drawn from the troubled fountain of our birth!
Indelible, ineradicable grief!
For him erewhile
We had labour infinite and unrelieved,
And now in his last hour we have to tell
Of sights and sorrows beyond thought.

CH.                                   How then?

ANT. Friends, ye might understand.

CH.                                Speak. Is he gone?

ANT. Gone! Even as heart could wish, had wishes power.
How else, when neither war, nor the wide sea
Encountered him, but viewless realms enwrapt him,
Wafted away to some mysterious doom?
Whence on our hearts a horror of night is fallen.
Woe 's me! For whither wandering shall we find
Hard livelihood, by land or over sea?

ISM. I know not. Let dark Hades take me off
To lie in death with mine age honoured sire!
Death were far better than my life to be.

CH. Noblest of maidens, ye must learn to bear
Meekly the sending of the Gods. Be not
On fire with grief. Your state is well assured.

ANT. If to be thus is well, then may one long
For evil to return. Things nowise dear
Were dear to me, whiles I had him to embrace.
O father! loved one! that art wearing now
The eternal robe of darkness underground,
Old as thou wert, think not this maid and I
Will cease from loving thee!

CH.                          He met his doom.

ANT. He met the doom he longed for.

CH.                                 How was that?

ANT. In the strange land where he desired to die
He died. He rests in shadow undisturbed;
Nor hath he left a tearless funeral.
For these mine eyes, father, unceasingly
Mourn thee with weeping, nor can I subdue
This ever-mounting sorrow for thy loss.
Ah me! Would thou hadst not desired to die
Here among strangers, but alone with thee
There, in the desert, I had seen thee die!

ISM. Unhappy me! What destiny, dear girl,
Awaits us both, bereaved and fatherless?

CH. His end was fortunate. He rests in peace.
Dear maidens, then desist from your complaint.
Sorrow is swift to overtake us all.

ANT. Thither again, dear girl, let us go speedily!

ISM. Say, for what end?

ANT.                    Desire possesses me--

ISM. Whereof?

ANT. To see the darksome dwelling-place--

ISM. Of whom?

ANT.          Woe is me! Of him, our sire!

ISM.                                       But how
Can this be lawful? Seest thou not?

ANT.                                How say'st thou?
Why this remonstrance?

ISM.                   Seest thou not, again,
He hath no grave and no man buried him.

ANT. Take me but where he lies. Then slay me there.

ISM. Ah! woe is me, doubly unfortunate,
Forlorn and destitute, whither henceforth
For wretched comfort must we go?

CH.                              Fear nought,
Dear maidens!

ISM.          Where shall we find refuge?

CH.                                       Here,
Long since, your refuge is secure.

ANT.                               How so?

CH. No harm shall touch you.

ANT.                         I know that.

CH.                                       What then
Further engrosseth thee?

ANT.                     How to get home
I know not.

CH.         Seek not for it.

ANT.                         Weariness
O'erweighs me.

CH.            Hath it not before oppressed thee?

ANT. Before, it vexed me; now it overwhelms.

CH. A mighty sea of misery is your lot.

ANT. Woe is me! O Zeus! And whither must we go?
Unto what doom doth my Fate drive me now?

CH. Children, lament no longer. 'Tis not well
To mourn 'mongst those with whom the honoured dead
Hath left the heirloom of his benison.

_Enter_ THESEUS.

ANT. Theseus, behold us falling at thy feet.

THE. What boon, my children, are ye bent to obtain?

ANT. Our eyes would see our father's burial-place.

THE. 'Tis not permitted to go near that spot.

ANT. O Athens' sovereign lord, what hast thou said?

THE. Dear children, 'twas your father's spoken will
That no man should approach his resting-place,
Nor human voice should ever violate
The mystery of the tomb wherein he lies.
He promised, if I truly kept this word,
My land would evermore be free from harm.
The power which no man may transgress and live,
The oath of Zeus, bore witness to our troth.

ANT. His wishes are enough. Then, pray thee, send
An escort to convey us to our home,
Primeval Thebes, if so we may prevent
The death that menaces our brethren there.

THE. That will I; and in all that I may do
To prosper you and solace him beneath,--
Who even now passes to eternity,--
I must not falter. Come, lament no more.
His destiny hath found a perfect end.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                NOTES

                          SOME PROPER NAMES

AIDONEUS, Hades or Pluto.
ARES, The War-God, a destructive Power.
DEO, Demeter.
ERINYES, the Furies.
HELIOS, The Sun-God.
RHEA, the Mother of the Gods.
THEBE, the town of Thebes personified.

                              ANTIGONE.

1 P. 6, l. 126. _The serpent._ The dragon, the emblem of Thebes.

2   l. 130. _Idly caparisoned._ Reading [Greek: huperopliais].

3 P. 7, l. 140. _Self-harnessed helper._ An allusion to the [Greek:
  seiraphoros], or side trace-horse, in a chariot-race.

4 P. 13, l. 342. _Children of the steed._ Mules are so-called by
  Homer.

5 P. 30, l. 955. _Dryas' hasty son._ Lycurgus. See Homer, _Iliad_, vi.

6   l. 971. _Phineus' two sons._ Idothea, the second wife of Phineus,
  persecuted his two sons by Cleopatra, a daughter of Boreas, whom he
  had repudiated and immured. The Argonauts saw them in the condition
  here described.

7 P. 34, l. 1120. _The all-gathering bosom wide._ The plain of
  Eleusis, where mysteries were held in honour of Deo or Demeter.

8 P. 39, l. 1301. Reading [Greek: *oxuthekto ... peri*xiphei].

9   l. 1303. _The glorious bed of buried Megareus._ Megareus, son of
  Creon and Eurydice, sacrificed himself for Thebes by falling into a
  deep cave called the Dragon's Lair.

                                AIAS.

1 P. 48, l. 172. _Her blood-stained temple._ In some of her temples
  Artemis was worshipped with sacrifices of bulls, and, according to
  an old tradition, also with human sacrifices.

2 P. 49. l. 190. _The brood of Sisyphus._ Amongst his enemies,
  Odysseus was reputed to be the offspring of Sisyphus and not of
  Laertes.

3 P. 59, l. 574. _Named of the shield._ Eurysakes means Broadshield.

4 P. 71, l. 1011. _Who smiles no more._ Compare a fragment of the
  _Teucer_ of Sophocles (519, Nauck),

                   'How vain then, O my son,
       How vain was my delight in thy proud fame,
       While I supposed thee living! The fell Fury
       From her dark shroud beguiled me with sweet lies.'

                            KING OEDIPUS.

1 P. 86, l. 36. _That stern songstress._ The Sphinx. See also
  'minstrel hound.'

2 P. 96, l. 402. _Will hunt | Pollution forth._ The party cry of
  'driving out the pollution' was raised against the Alcmaeonidae and
  other families in Athens, who were supposed to lie under a
  traditional curse.

3 P. 99. l. 525. _Who durst declare it._ [Greek: Tou pros d'
  ephanthe]. Though the emphatic order of words is unusual, this seems
  more forcible than the var. [Greek: toupos d' ephanthe].

4 P. 102, l. 625. [CR. _You'll ne'er relent nor listen to my plea._] A
  line has here been lost in the original.

5 P. 113, l. 1025. _Your purchase or your child?_ Oedipus is not to be
  supposed to have weighed the import of the Corinthian shepherd's
  words, 'Nor I nor he,' &c., _supra_.

6 P. 128. l. 1526. _His envied fortune mounted beaming._ Reading
  [Greek: en zelo politon] (with 2 MSS) and [Greek: epiphlegon] from
  my conjecture.

                               ELECTRA.

1 P. 131, l. 6. _The wolf-slaying God._ Apollo Lyceius, from _Lycos_,
  a wolf.

2 P. 140, l. 363. _Ne'er be it mine,_ &c. Reading [Greek: toume me
  *lupoun monon | boskema].

3 P. 143, l. 451. _That lingers on my brow._ A somewhat forced
  interpretation of [Greek: tende lipare tricha]. Possibly [Greek:
  tend' alamprunton tricha]: 'And this--unkempt and poor--yet give it
  to him.'

4 P. 144, l. 504. _Chariot course of Pelops, full of toil._ Pelops won
  his bride Hippodameia by bribing Myrtilus, his charioteer; whom, in
  order to conceal his fault, he flung into the sea.

5 P. 150, l. 722. _That pulled the side-rope._ See on Ant., p. 7, l.
  140.

6   l. 151. _In letting loose again the left-hand rein._ The near
  horse (see above) knows his business, and, when the slackening of
  the rein shows that the goal is cleared, makes eagerly for the
  direct downward course. But if he is let go an instant too soon, he
  brings the car into contact with the stone.

7   l. 746. _Caught in the reins._ In an ancient chariot-race, the
  reins were often passed round the body of the charioteer, so as to
  give more purchase. See this described in the _Hippolytus_ of
  Euripides.

8 P. 154, l. 837. _One in a woman's toils | was tangled._ Amphiaraus,
  betrayed by Eriphyle for a necklace.

9 P. 160, l. 1085. _Through homeless misery._ I read [Greek: aion'
  aoikon] for [Greek: aiona koinon] of the MSS.

10   l. 1086. _Purging the sin and shame._ I read [Greek: kathagnisasa]
  for the impossible [Greek: kathoplisasa].

11 P. 172, l. 1478. _Thou hast been taking,_ &c. Otherwise, reading
  with the MSS [Greek: zon tois thanousin ounek' antaudas isa], _At
  point to die, thou art talking with the dead._

                         TRACHINIAN MAIDENS.

1 P. 180, l. 104. _Bride of battle-wooing._ 'Deanira' signifies 'Cause
  of strife to heroes.'

2 P. 185, l. 303. _Ne'er may I see thee._ The Spartan captives from
  Pylos had lately been at Athens, and some of them were reputed
  descendants of Hyllus, the son of Deanira.

3 P. 195, l. 654. _Frees him for ever._ His last contest brings his
  final deliverance.

4 P. 201, l. 860. _From Love's dread minister,_ i.e. from Aphrodite,
  working through the concealed and silent Iole.

                             PHILOCTETES.

1 P. 222, l. 194. _Through Chrysa's cruel sting._ Chrysa was an island
  near the Troad, sacred to a goddess of the name. Her precinct was
  guarded by a serpent, whose bite, from which Philoctetes suffered,
  was incurable. See below p. 254, l. 1327.

2 P. 226, l. 344. _The fosterer of my sire._ Phoenix, the tutor of
  Achilles.

3 P. 227, l. 351. _For I ne'er | Had seen him._ The legend which makes
  Achilles go to Troy from Scyros is probably ignored.

4   l. 384. _Vile offset of an evil tree._ Alluding to the supposed
  birth of Odysseus. See on Ai., l. 190, p. 60 [sic. should be p. 49].

5 P. 230, l. 489. _Of old Chalcodon._ One of the former generation, a
  friend and neighbour of Poeas the father of Philoctetes.

6 P. 237, l. 729. _Of him, whose home is in the skies._ Heracles,
  imagined as transfigured on Mount Oeta.

7 P. 254, l. 1328. _The sky-roofed fold._ The open precinct that was
  sacred to the goddess, merely surrounded by a wall. See above, note
  on p. 222, l. 194.

8 P. 255, l. 1333. _Phoebus' child._ Asclepius.

                         OEDIPUS AT COLONOS.

1 P. 265, l. 158. _Mingles with draughts,_ &c. Where libations are
  mixed of water and honey.

2 P. 288, l. 888. _The God._ Poseidon. See above, p. 282 [sic. should
  be p. 262], l. 55.

3 P. 306, l. 1525. _neighbouring._ [Greek: geitonon] (the participle).

4   l. 1534. _The dragon-brood._ The Cadmeian race at Thebes, sprung
  from the dragon's teeth sown by Cadmus.

N.B.--For other questionable points the student is referred to the
small edition of _Sophocles_, by Campbell and Abbott (2 vols.,
Clarendon Press, 1900).

Oxford: HORACE HART, Printer to the University.

End of Project Gutenberg's The Seven Plays in English Verse, by Sophocles


The Oedipus Trilogy

by Sophocles

Contents

 OEDIPUS THE KING
 OEDIPUS AT COLONUS
 ANTIGONE

OEDIPUS THE KING

Translation by F. Storr, BA
Formerly Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge
From the Loeb Library Edition
Originally published by
Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA
and
William Heinemann Ltd, London
First published in 1912

ARGUMENT

To Laius, King of Thebes, an oracle foretold that the child born to him
by his queen Jocasta would slay his father and wed his mother. So when
in time a son was born the infant’s feet were riveted together and he
was left to die on Mount Cithaeron. But a shepherd found the babe and
tended him, and delivered him to another shepherd who took him to his
master, the King of Corinth. Polybus being childless adopted the boy,
who grew up believing that he was indeed the King’s son. Afterwards
doubting his parentage he inquired of the Delphic god and heard himself
the word declared before to Laius. Wherefore he fled from what he
deemed his father’s house and in his flight he encountered and
unwillingly slew his father Laius. Arriving at Thebes he answered the
riddle of the Sphinx and the grateful Thebans made their deliverer
king. So he reigned in the room of Laius, and espoused the widowed
queen. Children were born to them and Thebes prospered under his rule,
but again a grievous plague fell upon the city. Again the oracle was
consulted and it bade them purge themselves of blood-guiltiness.
Oedipus denounces the crime of which he is unaware, and undertakes to
track out the criminal. Step by step it is brought home to him that he
is the man. The closing scene reveals Jocasta slain by her own hand and
Oedipus blinded by his own act and praying for death or exile.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

Oedipus.
The Priest of Zeus.
Creon.
Chorus of Theban Elders.
Teiresias.
Jocasta.
Messenger.
Herd of Laius.
Second Messenger.

Scene: Thebes. Before the Palace of Oedipus.

OEDIPUS THE KING

Suppliants of all ages are seated round the altar at the palace doors,
at their head a PRIEST OF ZEUS. To them enter OEDIPUS.

OEDIPUS.
My children, latest born to Cadmus old,
Why sit ye here as suppliants, in your hands
Branches of olive filleted with wool?
What means this reek of incense everywhere,
And everywhere laments and litanies?
Children, it were not meet that I should learn
From others, and am hither come, myself,
I Oedipus, your world-renowned king.
Ho! aged sire, whose venerable locks
Proclaim thee spokesman of this company,
Explain your mood and purport. Is it dread
Of ill that moves you or a boon ye crave?
My zeal in your behalf ye cannot doubt;
Ruthless indeed were I and obdurate
If such petitioners as you I spurned.

PRIEST.
Yea, Oedipus, my sovereign lord and king,
Thou seest how both extremes of age besiege
Thy palace altars—fledglings hardly winged,
and greybeards bowed with years; priests, as am I
of Zeus, and these the flower of our youth.
Meanwhile, the common folk, with wreathed boughs
Crowd our two market-places, or before
Both shrines of Pallas congregate, or where
Ismenus gives his oracles by fire.
For, as thou seest thyself, our ship of State,
Sore buffeted, can no more lift her head,
Foundered beneath a weltering surge of blood.
A blight is on our harvest in the ear,
A blight upon the grazing flocks and herds,
A blight on wives in travail; and withal
Armed with his blazing torch the God of Plague
Hath swooped upon our city emptying
The house of Cadmus, and the murky realm
Of Pluto is full fed with groans and tears.
     Therefore, O King, here at thy hearth we sit,
I and these children; not as deeming thee
A new divinity, but the first of men;
First in the common accidents of life,
And first in visitations of the Gods.
Art thou not he who coming to the town
of Cadmus freed us from the tax we paid
To the fell songstress? Nor hadst thou received
Prompting from us or been by others schooled;
No, by a god inspired (so all men deem,
And testify) didst thou renew our life.
And now, O Oedipus, our peerless king,
All we thy votaries beseech thee, find
Some succor, whether by a voice from heaven
Whispered, or haply known by human wit.
Tried counselors, methinks, are aptest found1
To furnish for the future pregnant rede.
Upraise, O chief of men, upraise our State!
Look to thy laurels! for thy zeal of yore
Our country’s savior thou art justly hailed:
O never may we thus record thy reign:—
“He raised us up only to cast us down.”
Uplift us, build our city on a rock.
Thy happy star ascendant brought us luck,
O let it not decline! If thou wouldst rule
This land, as now thou reignest, better sure
To rule a peopled than a desert realm.
Nor battlements nor galleys aught avail,
If men to man and guards to guard them tail.

OEDIPUS.
Ah! my poor children, known, ah, known too well,
The quest that brings you hither and your need.
Ye sicken all, well wot I, yet my pain,
How great soever yours, outtops it all.
Your sorrow touches each man severally,
Him and none other, but I grieve at once
Both for the general and myself and you.
Therefore ye rouse no sluggard from day-dreams.
Many, my children, are the tears I’ve wept,
And threaded many a maze of weary thought.
Thus pondering one clue of hope I caught,
And tracked it up; I have sent Menoeceus’ son,
Creon, my consort’s brother, to inquire
Of Pythian Phoebus at his Delphic shrine,
How I might save the State by act or word.
And now I reckon up the tale of days
Since he set forth, and marvel how he fares.
’Tis strange, this endless tarrying, passing strange.
But when he comes, then I were base indeed,
If I perform not all the god declares.

PRIEST.
Thy words are well timed; even as thou speakest
That shouting tells me Creon is at hand.

OEDIPUS.
O King Apollo! may his joyous looks
Be presage of the joyous news he brings!

PRIEST.
As I surmise, ’tis welcome; else his head
Had scarce been crowned with berry-laden bays.

OEDIPUS.
We soon shall know; he’s now in earshot range.
[Enter CREON]
My royal cousin, say, Menoeceus’ child,
What message hast thou brought us from the god?

CREON.
Good news, for e’en intolerable ills,
Finding right issue, tend to naught but good.

OEDIPUS.
How runs the oracle? thus far thy words
Give me no ground for confidence or fear.

CREON.
If thou wouldst hear my message publicly,
I’ll tell thee straight, or with thee pass within.

OEDIPUS.
Speak before all; the burden that I bear
Is more for these my subjects than myself.

CREON.
Let me report then all the god declared.
King Phoebus bids us straitly extirpate
A fell pollution that infests the land,
And no more harbor an inveterate sore.

OEDIPUS.
What expiation means he? What’s amiss?

CREON.
Banishment, or the shedding blood for blood.
This stain of blood makes shipwreck of our state.

OEDIPUS.
Whom can he mean, the miscreant thus denounced?

CREON.
Before thou didst assume the helm of State,
The sovereign of this land was Laius.

OEDIPUS.
I heard as much, but never saw the man.

CREON.
He fell; and now the god’s command is plain:
Punish his takers-off, whoe’er they be.

OEDIPUS.
Where are they? Where in the wide world to find
The far, faint traces of a bygone crime?

CREON.
In this land, said the god; “who seeks shall find;
Who sits with folded hands or sleeps is blind.”

OEDIPUS.
Was he within his palace, or afield,
Or traveling, when Laius met his fate?

CREON.
Abroad; he started, so he told us, bound
For Delphi, but he never thence returned.

OEDIPUS.
Came there no news, no fellow-traveler
To give some clue that might be followed up?

CREON.
But one escape, who flying for dear life,
Could tell of all he saw but one thing sure.

OEDIPUS.
And what was that? One clue might lead us far,
With but a spark of hope to guide our quest.

CREON.
Robbers, he told us, not one bandit but
A troop of knaves, attacked and murdered him.

OEDIPUS.
Did any bandit dare so bold a stroke,
Unless indeed he were suborned from Thebes?

CREON.
So ’twas surmised, but none was found to avenge
His murder mid the trouble that ensued.

OEDIPUS.
What trouble can have hindered a full quest,
When royalty had fallen thus miserably?

CREON.
The riddling Sphinx compelled us to let slide
The dim past and attend to instant needs.

OEDIPUS.
Well, _I_ will start afresh and once again
Make dark things clear. Right worthy the concern
Of Phoebus, worthy thine too, for the dead;
I also, as is meet, will lend my aid
To avenge this wrong to Thebes and to the god.
Not for some far-off kinsman, but myself,
Shall I expel this poison in the blood;
For whoso slew that king might have a mind
To strike me too with his assassin hand.
Therefore in righting him I serve myself.
Up, children, haste ye, quit these altar stairs,
Take hence your suppliant wands, go summon hither
The Theban commons. With the god’s good help
Success is sure; ’tis ruin if we fail.
[Exeunt OEDIPUS and CREON]

PRIEST.
Come, children, let us hence; these gracious words
Forestall the very purpose of our suit.
And may the god who sent this oracle
Save us withal and rid us of this pest.
[Exeunt PRIEST and SUPPLIANTS]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Sweet-voiced daughter of Zeus from thy gold-paved Pythian shrine
          Wafted to Thebes divine,
What dost thou bring me? My soul is racked and shivers with fear.
          (Healer of Delos, hear!)
Hast thou some pain unknown before,
Or with the circling years renewest a penance of yore?
Offspring of golden Hope, thou voice immortal, O tell me.

(Ant. 1)
First on Athene I call; O Zeus-born goddess, defend!
          Goddess and sister, befriend,
Artemis, Lady of Thebes, high-throned in the midst of our mart!
          Lord of the death-winged dart!
            Your threefold aid I crave
     From death and ruin our city to save.
If in the days of old when we nigh had perished, ye drave
From our land the fiery plague, be near us now and defend us!

(Str. 2)
     Ah me, what countless woes are mine!
     All our host is in decline;
     Weaponless my spirit lies.
     Earth her gracious fruits denies;
     Women wail in barren throes;
     Life on life downstriken goes,
     Swifter than the wind bird’s flight,
     Swifter than the Fire-God’s might,
     To the westering shores of Night.

(Ant. 2)
     Wasted thus by death on death
     All our city perisheth.
     Corpses spread infection round;
     None to tend or mourn is found.
     Wailing on the altar stair
     Wives and grandams rend the air—
     Long-drawn moans and piercing cries
     Blent with prayers and litanies.
     Golden child of Zeus, O hear
     Let thine angel face appear!

(Str. 3)
And grant that Ares whose hot breath I feel,
          Though without targe or steel
He stalks, whose voice is as the battle shout,
May turn in sudden rout,
To the unharbored Thracian waters sped,
          Or Amphitrite’s bed.
     For what night leaves undone,
     Smit by the morrow’s sun
Perisheth. Father Zeus, whose hand
Doth wield the lightning brand,
Slay him beneath thy levin bold, we pray,
          Slay him, O slay!

(Ant. 3)
O that thine arrows too, Lycean King,
          From that taut bow’s gold string,
Might fly abroad, the champions of our rights;
          Yea, and the flashing lights
Of Artemis, wherewith the huntress sweeps
          Across the Lycian steeps.
Thee too I call with golden-snooded hair,
          Whose name our land doth bear,
Bacchus to whom thy Maenads Evoe shout;
          Come with thy bright torch, rout,
               Blithe god whom we adore,
               The god whom gods abhor.

[Enter OEDIPUS.]

OEDIPUS.
Ye pray; ’tis well, but would ye hear my words
And heed them and apply the remedy,
Ye might perchance find comfort and relief.
Mind you, I speak as one who comes a stranger
To this report, no less than to the crime;
For how unaided could I track it far
Without a clue? Which lacking (for too late
Was I enrolled a citizen of Thebes)
This proclamation I address to all:—
Thebans, if any knows the man by whom
Laius, son of Labdacus, was slain,
I summon him to make clean shrift to me.
And if he shrinks, let him reflect that thus
Confessing he shall ’scape the capital charge;
For the worst penalty that shall befall him
Is banishment—unscathed he shall depart.
But if an alien from a foreign land
Be known to any as the murderer,
Let him who knows speak out, and he shall have
Due recompense from me and thanks to boot.
But if ye still keep silence, if through fear
For self or friends ye disregard my hest,
Hear what I then resolve; I lay my ban
On the assassin whosoe’er he be.
Let no man in this land, whereof I hold
The sovereign rule, harbor or speak to him;
Give him no part in prayer or sacrifice
Or lustral rites, but hound him from your homes.
For this is our defilement, so the god
Hath lately shown to me by oracles.
Thus as their champion I maintain the cause
Both of the god and of the murdered King.
And on the murderer this curse I lay
(On him and all the partners in his guilt):—
Wretch, may he pine in utter wretchedness!
And for myself, if with my privity
He gain admittance to my hearth, I pray
The curse I laid on others fall on me.
See that ye give effect to all my hest,
For my sake and the god’s and for our land,
A desert blasted by the wrath of heaven.
For, let alone the god’s express command,
It were a scandal ye should leave unpurged
The murder of a great man and your king,
Nor track it home. And now that I am lord,
Successor to his throne, his bed, his wife,
(And had he not been frustrate in the hope
Of issue, common children of one womb
Had forced a closer bond twixt him and me,
But Fate swooped down upon him), therefore I
His blood-avenger will maintain his cause
As though he were my sire, and leave no stone
Unturned to track the assassin or avenge
The son of Labdacus, of Polydore,
Of Cadmus, and Agenor first of the race.
And for the disobedient thus I pray:
May the gods send them neither timely fruits
Of earth, nor teeming increase of the womb,
But may they waste and pine, as now they waste,
Aye and worse stricken; but to all of you,
My loyal subjects who approve my acts,
May Justice, our ally, and all the gods
Be gracious and attend you evermore.

CHORUS.
The oath thou profferest, sire, I take and swear.
I slew him not myself, nor can I name
The slayer. For the quest, ’twere well, methinks
That Phoebus, who proposed the riddle, himself
Should give the answer—who the murderer was.

OEDIPUS.
Well argued; but no living man can hope
To force the gods to speak against their will.

CHORUS.
May I then say what seems next best to me?

OEDIPUS.
Aye, if there be a third best, tell it too.

CHORUS.
My liege, if any man sees eye to eye
With our lord Phoebus, ’tis our prophet, lord
Teiresias; he of all men best might guide
A searcher of this matter to the light.

OEDIPUS.
Here too my zeal has nothing lagged, for twice
At Creon’s instance have I sent to fetch him,
And long I marvel why he is not here.

CHORUS.
I mind me too of rumors long ago—
Mere gossip.

OEDIPUS.
               Tell them, I would fain know all.

CHORUS.
’Twas said he fell by travelers.

OEDIPUS.
                                   So I heard,
But none has seen the man who saw him fall.

CHORUS.
Well, if he knows what fear is, he will quail
And flee before the terror of thy curse.

OEDIPUS.
Words scare not him who blenches not at deeds.

CHORUS.
But here is one to arraign him. Lo, at length
They bring the god-inspired seer in whom
Above all other men is truth inborn.
[Enter TEIRESIAS, led by a boy.]

OEDIPUS.
Teiresias, seer who comprehendest all,
Lore of the wise and hidden mysteries,
High things of heaven and low things of the earth,
Thou knowest, though thy blinded eyes see naught,
What plague infects our city; and we turn
To thee, O seer, our one defense and shield.
The purport of the answer that the God
Returned to us who sought his oracle,
The messengers have doubtless told thee—how
One course alone could rid us of the pest,
To find the murderers of Laius,
And slay them or expel them from the land.
Therefore begrudging neither augury
Nor other divination that is thine,
O save thyself, thy country, and thy king,
Save all from this defilement of blood shed.
On thee we rest. This is man’s highest end,
To others’ service all his powers to lend.

TEIRESIAS.
Alas, alas, what misery to be wise
When wisdom profits nothing! This old lore
I had forgotten; else I were not here.

OEDIPUS.
What ails thee? Why this melancholy mood?

TEIRESIAS.
Let me go home; prevent me not; ’twere best
That thou shouldst bear thy burden and I mine.

OEDIPUS.
For shame! no true-born Theban patriot
Would thus withhold the word of prophecy.

TEIRESIAS.
_Thy_ words, O king, are wide of the mark, and I
For fear lest I too trip like thee...

OEDIPUS.
                                        Oh speak,
Withhold not, I adjure thee, if thou know’st,
Thy knowledge. We are all thy suppliants.

TEIRESIAS.
Aye, for ye all are witless, but my voice
Will ne’er reveal my miseries—or thine.2

OEDIPUS.
What then, thou knowest, and yet willst not speak!
Wouldst thou betray us and destroy the State?

TEIRESIAS.
I will not vex myself nor thee. Why ask
Thus idly what from me thou shalt not learn?

OEDIPUS.
Monster! thy silence would incense a flint.
Will nothing loose thy tongue? Can nothing melt thee,
Or shake thy dogged taciturnity?

TEIRESIAS.
Thou blam’st my mood and seest not thine own
Wherewith thou art mated; no, thou taxest me.

OEDIPUS.
And who could stay his choler when he heard
How insolently thou dost flout the State?

TEIRESIAS.
Well, it will come what will, though I be mute.

OEDIPUS.
Since come it must, thy duty is to tell me.

TEIRESIAS.
I have no more to say; storm as thou willst,
And give the rein to all thy pent-up rage.

OEDIPUS.
Yea, I am wroth, and will not stint my words,
But speak my whole mind. Thou methinks thou art he,
Who planned the crime, aye, and performed it too,
All save the assassination; and if thou
Hadst not been blind, I had been sworn to boot
That thou alone didst do the bloody deed.

TEIRESIAS.
Is it so? Then I charge thee to abide
By thine own proclamation; from this day
Speak not to these or me. Thou art the man,
Thou the accursed polluter of this land.

OEDIPUS.
Vile slanderer, thou blurtest forth these taunts,
And think’st forsooth as seer to go scot free.

TEIRESIAS.
Yea, I am free, strong in the strength of truth.

OEDIPUS.
Who was thy teacher? not methinks thy art.

TEIRESIAS.
Thou, goading me against my will to speak.

OEDIPUS.
What speech? repeat it and resolve my doubt.

TEIRESIAS.
Didst miss my sense wouldst thou goad me on?

OEDIPUS.
I but half caught thy meaning; say it again.

TEIRESIAS.
I say thou art the murderer of the man
Whose murderer thou pursuest.

OEDIPUS.
                              Thou shalt rue it
Twice to repeat so gross a calumny.

TEIRESIAS.
Must I say more to aggravate thy rage?

OEDIPUS.
Say all thou wilt; it will be but waste of breath.

TEIRESIAS.
I say thou livest with thy nearest kin
In infamy, unwitting in thy shame.

OEDIPUS.
Think’st thou for aye unscathed to wag thy tongue?

TEIRESIAS.
Yea, if the might of truth can aught prevail.

OEDIPUS.
With other men, but not with thee, for thou
In ear, wit, eye, in everything art blind.

TEIRESIAS.
Poor fool to utter gibes at me which all
Here present will cast back on thee ere long.

OEDIPUS.
Offspring of endless Night, thou hast no power
O’er me or any man who sees the sun.

TEIRESIAS.
No, for thy weird is not to fall by me.
I leave to Apollo what concerns the god.

OEDIPUS.
Is this a plot of Creon, or thine own?

TEIRESIAS.
Not Creon, thou thyself art thine own bane.

OEDIPUS.
O wealth and empiry and skill by skill
Outwitted in the battlefield of life,
What spite and envy follow in your train!
See, for this crown the State conferred on me.
A gift, a thing I sought not, for this crown
The trusty Creon, my familiar friend,
Hath lain in wait to oust me and suborned
This mountebank, this juggling charlatan,
This tricksy beggar-priest, for gain alone
Keen-eyed, but in his proper art stone-blind.
Say, sirrah, hast thou ever proved thyself
A prophet? When the riddling Sphinx was here
Why hadst thou no deliverance for this folk?
And yet the riddle was not to be solved
By guess-work but required the prophet’s art;
Wherein thou wast found lacking; neither birds
Nor sign from heaven helped thee, but _I_ came,
The simple Oedipus; _I_ stopped her mouth
By mother wit, untaught of auguries.
This is the man whom thou wouldst undermine,
In hope to reign with Creon in my stead.
Methinks that thou and thine abettor soon
Will rue your plot to drive the scapegoat out.
Thank thy grey hairs that thou hast still to learn
What chastisement such arrogance deserves.

CHORUS.
To us it seems that both the seer and thou,
O Oedipus, have spoken angry words.
This is no time to wrangle but consult
How best we may fulfill the oracle.

TEIRESIAS.
King as thou art, free speech at least is mine
To make reply; in this I am thy peer.
I own no lord but Loxias; him I serve
And ne’er can stand enrolled as Creon’s man.
Thus then I answer: since thou hast not spared
To twit me with my blindness—thou hast eyes,
Yet see’st not in what misery thou art fallen,
Nor where thou dwellest nor with whom for mate.
Dost know thy lineage? Nay, thou know’st it not,
And all unwitting art a double foe
To thine own kin, the living and the dead;
Aye and the dogging curse of mother and sire
One day shall drive thee, like a two-edged sword,
Beyond our borders, and the eyes that now
See clear shall henceforward endless night.
Ah whither shall thy bitter cry not reach,
What crag in all Cithaeron but shall then
Reverberate thy wail, when thou hast found
With what a hymeneal thou wast borne
Home, but to no fair haven, on the gale!
Aye, and a flood of ills thou guessest not
Shall set thyself and children in one line.
Flout then both Creon and my words, for none
Of mortals shall be striken worse than thou.

OEDIPUS.
Must I endure this fellow’s insolence?
A murrain on thee! Get thee hence! Begone
Avaunt! and never cross my threshold more.

TEIRESIAS.
I ne’er had come hadst thou not bidden me.

OEDIPUS.
I know not thou wouldst utter folly, else
Long hadst thou waited to be summoned here.

TEIRESIAS.
Such am I—as it seems to thee a fool,
But to the parents who begat thee, wise.

OEDIPUS.
What sayest thou—“parents”? Who begat me, speak?

TEIRESIAS.
This day shall be thy birth-day, and thy grave.

OEDIPUS.
Thou lov’st to speak in riddles and dark words.

TEIRESIAS.
In reading riddles who so skilled as thou?

OEDIPUS.
Twit me with that wherein my greatness lies.

TEIRESIAS.
And yet this very greatness proved thy bane.

OEDIPUS.
No matter if I saved the commonwealth.

TEIRESIAS.
’Tis time I left thee. Come, boy, take me home.

OEDIPUS.
Aye, take him quickly, for his presence irks
And lets me; gone, thou canst not plague me more.

TEIRESIAS.
I go, but first will tell thee why I came.
Thy frown I dread not, for thou canst not harm me.
Hear then: this man whom thou hast sought to arrest
With threats and warrants this long while, the wretch
Who murdered Laius—that man is here.
He passes for an alien in the land
But soon shall prove a Theban, native born.
And yet his fortune brings him little joy;
For blind of seeing, clad in beggar’s weeds,
For purple robes, and leaning on his staff,
To a strange land he soon shall grope his way.
And of the children, inmates of his home,
He shall be proved the brother and the sire,
Of her who bare him son and husband both,
Co-partner, and assassin of his sire.
Go in and ponder this, and if thou find
That I have missed the mark, henceforth declare
I have no wit nor skill in prophecy.
[Exeunt TEIRESIAS and OEDIPUS]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Who is he by voice immortal named from Pythia’s rocky cell,
Doer of foul deeds of bloodshed, horrors that no tongue can tell?
          A foot for flight he needs
          Fleeter than storm-swift steeds,
          For on his heels doth follow,
Armed with the lightnings of his Sire, Apollo.
          Like sleuth-hounds too
          The Fates pursue.

(Ant. 1)
Yea, but now flashed forth the summons from Parnassus’ snowy peak,
“Near and far the undiscovered doer of this murder seek!”
          Now like a sullen bull he roves
          Through forest brakes and upland groves,
          And vainly seeks to fly
          The doom that ever nigh
          Flits o’er his head,
Still by the avenging Phoebus sped,
          The voice divine,
          From Earth’s mid shrine.
(Str. 2)
Sore perplexed am I by the words of the master seer.
Are they true, are they false? I know not and bridle my tongue for
   fear,
Fluttered with vague surmise; nor present nor future is clear.
Quarrel of ancient date or in days still near know I none
Twixt the Labdacidan house and our ruler, Polybus’ son.
Proof is there none: how then can I challenge our King’s good name,
How in a blood-feud join for an untracked deed of shame?

(Ant. 2)
All wise are Zeus and Apollo, and nothing is hid from their ken;
They are gods; and in wits a man may surpass his fellow men;
But that a mortal seer knows more than I know—where
Hath this been proven? Or how without sign assured, can I blame
Him who saved our State when the winged songstress came,
Tested and tried in the light of us all, like gold assayed?
How can I now assent when a crime is on Oedipus laid?

CREON.
Friends, countrymen, I learn King Oedipus
Hath laid against me a most grievous charge,
And come to you protesting. If he deems
That I have harmed or injured him in aught
By word or deed in this our present trouble,
I care not to prolong the span of life,
Thus ill-reputed; for the calumny
Hits not a single blot, but blasts my name,
If by the general voice I am denounced
False to the State and false by you my friends.

CHORUS.
This taunt, it well may be, was blurted out
In petulance, not spoken advisedly.

CREON.
Did any dare pretend that it was I
Prompted the seer to utter a forged charge?

CHORUS.
Such things were said; with what intent I know not.

CREON.
Were not his wits and vision all astray
When upon me he fixed this monstrous charge?

CHORUS.
I know not; to my sovereign’s acts I am blind.
But lo, he comes to answer for himself.
[Enter OEDIPUS.]

OEDIPUS.
Sirrah, what mak’st thou here? Dost thou presume
To approach my doors, thou brazen-faced rogue,
My murderer and the filcher of my crown?
Come, answer this, didst thou detect in me
Some touch of cowardice or witlessness,
That made thee undertake this enterprise?
I seemed forsooth too simple to perceive
The serpent stealing on me in the dark,
Or else too weak to scotch it when I saw.
This _thou_ art witless seeking to possess
Without a following or friends the crown,
A prize that followers and wealth must win.

CREON.
Attend me. Thou hast spoken, ’tis my turn
To make reply. Then having heard me, judge.

OEDIPUS.
Thou art glib of tongue, but I am slow to learn
Of thee; I know too well thy venomous hate.

CREON.
First I would argue out this very point.

OEDIPUS.
O argue not that thou art not a rogue.

CREON.
If thou dost count a virtue stubbornness,
Unschooled by reason, thou art much astray.

OEDIPUS.
If thou dost hold a kinsman may be wronged,
And no pains follow, thou art much to seek.

CREON.
Therein thou judgest rightly, but this wrong
That thou allegest—tell me what it is.

OEDIPUS.
Didst thou or didst thou not advise that I
Should call the priest?

CREON.
                         Yes, and I stand to it.

OEDIPUS.
Tell me how long is it since Laius...

CREON.
Since Laius...? I follow not thy drift.

OEDIPUS.
By violent hands was spirited away.

CREON.
In the dim past, a many years agone.

OEDIPUS.
Did the same prophet then pursue his craft?

CREON.
Yes, skilled as now and in no less repute.

OEDIPUS.
Did he at that time ever glance at me?

CREON.
Not to my knowledge, not when I was by.

OEDIPUS.
But was no search and inquisition made?

CREON.
Surely full quest was made, but nothing learnt.

OEDIPUS.
Why failed the seer to tell his story _then_?

CREON.
I know not, and not knowing hold my tongue.

OEDIPUS.
This much thou knowest and canst surely tell.

CREON.
What’s mean’st thou? All I know I will declare.

OEDIPUS.
But for thy prompting never had the seer
Ascribed to me the death of Laius.

CREON.
If so he thou knowest best; but I
Would put thee to the question in my turn.

OEDIPUS.
Question and prove me murderer if thou canst.

CREON.
Then let me ask thee, didst thou wed my sister?

OEDIPUS.
A fact so plain I cannot well deny.

CREON.
And as thy consort queen she shares the throne?

OEDIPUS.
I grant her freely all her heart desires.

CREON.
And with you twain I share the triple rule?

OEDIPUS.
Yea, and it is that proves thee a false friend.

CREON.
Not so, if thou wouldst reason with thyself,
As I with myself. First, I bid thee think,
Would any mortal choose a troubled reign
Of terrors rather than secure repose,
If the same power were given him? As for me,
I have no natural craving for the name
Of king, preferring to do kingly deeds,
And so thinks every sober-minded man.
Now all my needs are satisfied through thee,
And I have naught to fear; but were I king,
My acts would oft run counter to my will.
How could a title then have charms for me
Above the sweets of boundless influence?
I am not so infatuate as to grasp
The shadow when I hold the substance fast.
Now all men cry me Godspeed! wish me well,
And every suitor seeks to gain my ear,
If he would hope to win a grace from thee.
Why should I leave the better, choose the worse?
That were sheer madness, and I am not mad.
No such ambition ever tempted me,
Nor would I have a share in such intrigue.
And if thou doubt me, first to Delphi go,
There ascertain if my report was true
Of the god’s answer; next investigate
If with the seer I plotted or conspired,
And if it prove so, sentence me to death,
Not by thy voice alone, but mine and thine.
But O condemn me not, without appeal,
On bare suspicion. ’Tis not right to adjudge
Bad men at random good, or good men bad.
I would as lief a man should cast away
The thing he counts most precious, his own life,
As spurn a true friend. Thou wilt learn in time
The truth, for time alone reveals the just;
A villain is detected in a day.

CHORUS.
To one who walketh warily his words
Commend themselves; swift counsels are not sure.

OEDIPUS.
When with swift strides the stealthy plotter stalks
I must be quick too with my counterplot.
To wait his onset passively, for him
Is sure success, for me assured defeat.

CREON.
What then’s thy will? To banish me the land?

OEDIPUS.
I would not have thee banished, no, but dead,
That men may mark the wages envy reaps.

CREON.
I see thou wilt not yield, nor credit me.

OEDIPUS.
[None but a fool would credit such as thou.]3

CREON.
Thou art not wise.

OEDIPUS.
                    Wise for myself at least.

CREON.
Why not for me too?

OEDIPUS.
                    Why for such a knave?

CREON.
Suppose thou lackest sense.

OEDIPUS.
                              Yet kings must rule.

CREON.
Not if they rule ill.

OEDIPUS.
                         Oh my Thebans, hear him!

CREON.
Thy Thebans? am not I a Theban too?

CHORUS.
Cease, princes; lo there comes, and none too soon,
Jocasta from the palace. Who so fit
As peacemaker to reconcile your feud?
[Enter JOCASTA.]

JOCASTA.
Misguided princes, why have ye upraised
This wordy wrangle? Are ye not ashamed,
While the whole land lies striken, thus to voice
Your private injuries? Go in, my lord;
Go home, my brother, and forebear to make
A public scandal of a petty grief.

CREON.
My royal sister, Oedipus, thy lord,
Hath bid me choose (O dread alternative!)
An outlaw’s exile or a felon’s death.

OEDIPUS.
Yes, lady; I have caught him practicing
Against my royal person his vile arts.

CREON.
May I ne’er speed but die accursed, if I
In any way am guilty of this charge.

JOCASTA.
Believe him, I adjure thee, Oedipus,
First for his solemn oath’s sake, then for mine,
And for thine elders’ sake who wait on thee.

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Hearken, King, reflect, we pray thee, but not stubborn but relent.

OEDIPUS.
Say to what should I consent?

CHORUS.
Respect a man whose probity and troth
Are known to all and now confirmed by oath.

OEDIPUS.
Dost know what grace thou cravest?

CHORUS.
                                   Yea, I know.

OEDIPUS.
Declare it then and make thy meaning plain.

CHORUS.
Brand not a friend whom babbling tongues assail;
Let not suspicion ’gainst his oath prevail.

OEDIPUS.
Bethink you that in seeking this ye seek
In very sooth my death or banishment?

CHORUS.
No, by the leader of the host divine!
(Str. 2)
Witness, thou Sun, such thought was never mine,
Unblest, unfriended may I perish,
If ever I such wish did cherish!
But O my heart is desolate
Musing on our striken State,
Doubly fall’n should discord grow
Twixt you twain, to crown our woe.

OEDIPUS.
Well, let him go, no matter what it cost me,
Or certain death or shameful banishment,
For your sake I relent, not his; and him,
Where’er he be, my heart shall still abhor.

CREON.
Thou art as sullen in thy yielding mood
As in thine anger thou wast truculent.
Such tempers justly plague themselves the most.

OEDIPUS.
Leave me in peace and get thee gone.

CREON.
                                   I go,
By thee misjudged, but justified by these.
[Exeunt CREON]

CHORUS.
(Ant. 1)
Lady, lead indoors thy consort; wherefore longer here delay?

JOCASTA.
Tell me first how rose the fray.

CHORUS.
Rumors bred unjust suspicious and injustice rankles sore.

JOCASTA.
Were both at fault?

CHORUS.
                    Both.

JOCASTA.
                         What was the tale?

CHORUS.
Ask me no more. The land is sore distressed;
’Twere better sleeping ills to leave at rest.

OEDIPUS.
Strange counsel, friend! I know thou mean’st me well,
And yet would’st mitigate and blunt my zeal.

CHORUS.
(Ant. 2)
King, I say it once again,
Witless were I proved, insane,
If I lightly put away
Thee my country’s prop and stay,
Pilot who, in danger sought,
To a quiet haven brought
Our distracted State; and now
Who can guide us right but thou?

JOCASTA.
Let me too, I adjure thee, know, O king,
What cause has stirred this unrelenting wrath.

OEDIPUS.
I will, for thou art more to me than these.
Lady, the cause is Creon and his plots.

JOCASTA.
But what provoked the quarrel? make this clear.

OEDIPUS.
He points me out as Laius’ murderer.

JOCASTA.
Of his own knowledge or upon report?

OEDIPUS.
He is too cunning to commit himself,
And makes a mouthpiece of a knavish seer.

JOCASTA.
Then thou mayest ease thy conscience on that score.
Listen and I’ll convince thee that no man
Hath scot or lot in the prophetic art.
Here is the proof in brief. An oracle
Once came to Laius (I will not say
’Twas from the Delphic god himself, but from
His ministers) declaring he was doomed
To perish by the hand of his own son,
A child that should be born to him by me.
Now Laius—so at least report affirmed—
Was murdered on a day by highwaymen,
No natives, at a spot where three roads meet.
As for the child, it was but three days old,
When Laius, its ankles pierced and pinned
Together, gave it to be cast away
By others on the trackless mountain side.
So then Apollo brought it not to pass
The child should be his father’s murderer,
Or the dread terror find accomplishment,
And Laius be slain by his own son.
Such was the prophet’s horoscope. O king,
Regard it not. Whate’er the god deems fit
To search, himself unaided will reveal.

OEDIPUS.
What memories, what wild tumult of the soul
Came o’er me, lady, as I heard thee speak!

JOCASTA.
What mean’st thou? What has shocked and startled thee?

OEDIPUS.
Methought I heard thee say that Laius
Was murdered at the meeting of three roads.

JOCASTA.
So ran the story that is current still.

OEDIPUS.
Where did this happen? Dost thou know the place?

JOCASTA.
Phocis the land is called; the spot is where
Branch roads from Delphi and from Daulis meet.

OEDIPUS.
And how long is it since these things befell?

JOCASTA.
’Twas but a brief while were thou wast proclaimed
Our country’s ruler that the news was brought.

OEDIPUS.
O Zeus, what hast thou willed to do with me!

JOCASTA.
What is it, Oedipus, that moves thee so?

OEDIPUS.
Ask me not yet; tell me the build and height
Of Laius? Was he still in manhood’s prime?

JOCASTA.
Tall was he, and his hair was lightly strewn
With silver; and not unlike thee in form.

OEDIPUS.
O woe is me! Mehtinks unwittingly
I laid but now a dread curse on myself.

JOCASTA.
What say’st thou? When I look upon thee, my king,
I tremble.

OEDIPUS.
          ’Tis a dread presentiment
That in the end the seer will prove not blind.
One further question to resolve my doubt.

JOCASTA.
I quail; but ask, and I will answer all.

OEDIPUS.
Had he but few attendants or a train
Of armed retainers with him, like a prince?

JOCASTA.
They were but five in all, and one of them
A herald; Laius in a mule-car rode.

OEDIPUS.
Alas! ’tis clear as noonday now. But say,
Lady, who carried this report to Thebes?

JOCASTA.
A serf, the sole survivor who returned.

OEDIPUS.
Haply he is at hand or in the house?

JOCASTA.
No, for as soon as he returned and found
Thee reigning in the stead of Laius slain,
He clasped my hand and supplicated me
To send him to the alps and pastures, where
He might be farthest from the sight of Thebes.
And so I sent him. ’Twas an honest slave
And well deserved some better recompense.

OEDIPUS.
Fetch him at once. I fain would see the man.

JOCASTA.
He shall be brought; but wherefore summon him?

OEDIPUS.
Lady, I fear my tongue has overrun
Discretion; therefore I would question him.

JOCASTA.
Well, he shall come, but may not I too claim
To share the burden of thy heart, my king?

OEDIPUS.
And thou shalt not be frustrate of thy wish.
Now my imaginings have gone so far.
Who has a higher claim that thou to hear
My tale of dire adventures? Listen then.
My sire was Polybus of Corinth, and
My mother Merope, a Dorian;
And I was held the foremost citizen,
Till a strange thing befell me, strange indeed,
Yet scarce deserving all the heat it stirred.
A roisterer at some banquet, flown with wine,
Shouted “Thou art not true son of thy sire.”
It irked me, but I stomached for the nonce
The insult; on the morrow I sought out
My mother and my sire and questioned them.
They were indignant at the random slur
Cast on my parentage and did their best
To comfort me, but still the venomed barb
Rankled, for still the scandal spread and grew.
So privily without their leave I went
To Delphi, and Apollo sent me back
Baulked of the knowledge that I came to seek.
But other grievous things he prophesied,
Woes, lamentations, mourning, portents dire;
To wit I should defile my mother’s bed
And raise up seed too loathsome to behold,
And slay the father from whose loins I sprang.
Then, lady,—thou shalt hear the very truth—
As I drew near the triple-branching roads,
A herald met me and a man who sat
In a car drawn by colts—as in thy tale—
The man in front and the old man himself
Threatened to thrust me rudely from the path,
Then jostled by the charioteer in wrath
I struck him, and the old man, seeing this,
Watched till I passed and from his car brought down
Full on my head the double-pointed goad.
     Yet was I quits with him and more; one stroke
Of my good staff sufficed to fling him clean
Out of the chariot seat and laid him prone.
And so I slew them every one. But if
Betwixt this stranger there was aught in common
With Laius, who more miserable than I,
What mortal could you find more god-abhorred?
Wretch whom no sojourner, no citizen
May harbor or address, whom all are bound
To harry from their homes. And this same curse
Was laid on me, and laid by none but me.
Yea with these hands all gory I pollute
The bed of him I slew. Say, am I vile?
Am I not utterly unclean, a wretch
Doomed to be banished, and in banishment
Forgo the sight of all my dearest ones,
And never tread again my native earth;
Or else to wed my mother and slay my sire,
Polybus, who begat me and upreared?
If one should say, this is the handiwork
Of some inhuman power, who could blame
His judgment? But, ye pure and awful gods,
Forbid, forbid that I should see that day!
May I be blotted out from living men
Ere such a plague spot set on me its brand!

CHORUS.
We too, O king, are troubled; but till thou
Hast questioned the survivor, still hope on.

OEDIPUS.
My hope is faint, but still enough survives
To bid me bide the coming of this herd.

JOCASTA.
Suppose him here, what wouldst thou learn of him?

OEDIPUS.
I’ll tell thee, lady; if his tale agrees
With thine, I shall have ’scaped calamity.

JOCASTA.
And what of special import did I say?

OEDIPUS.
In thy report of what the herdsman said
Laius was slain by robbers; now if he
Still speaks of robbers, not a robber, I
Slew him not; “one” with “many” cannot square.
But if he says one lonely wayfarer,
The last link wanting to my guilt is forged.

JOCASTA.
Well, rest assured, his tale ran thus at first,
Nor can he now retract what then he said;
Not I alone but all our townsfolk heard it.
E’en should he vary somewhat in his story,
He cannot make the death of Laius
In any wise jump with the oracle.
For Loxias said expressly he was doomed
To die by my child’s hand, but he, poor babe,
He shed no blood, but perished first himself.
So much for divination. Henceforth I
Will look for signs neither to right nor left.

OEDIPUS.
Thou reasonest well. Still I would have thee send
And fetch the bondsman hither. See to it.

JOCASTA.
That will I straightway. Come, let us within.
I would do nothing that my lord mislikes.
[Exeunt OEDIPUS and JOCASTA]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
My lot be still to lead
     The life of innocence and fly
Irreverence in word or deed,
     To follow still those laws ordained on high
Whose birthplace is the bright ethereal sky
     No mortal birth they own,
     Olympus their progenitor alone:
Ne’er shall they slumber in oblivion cold,
The god in them is strong and grows not old.

(Ant. 1)
     Of insolence is bred
The tyrant; insolence full blown,
     With empty riches surfeited,
Scales the precipitous height and grasps the throne.
     Then topples o’er and lies in ruin prone;
     No foothold on that dizzy steep.
But O may Heaven the true patriot keep
Who burns with emulous zeal to serve the State.
God is my help and hope, on him I wait.

(Str. 2)
But the proud sinner, or in word or deed,
     That will not Justice heed,
     Nor reverence the shrine
     Of images divine,
Perdition seize his vain imaginings,
     If, urged by greed profane,
     He grasps at ill-got gain,
And lays an impious hand on holiest things.
     Who when such deeds are done
     Can hope heaven’s bolts to shun?
If sin like this to honor can aspire,
Why dance I still and lead the sacred choir?

(Ant. 2)
No more I’ll seek earth’s central oracle,
     Or Abae’s hallowed cell,
     Nor to Olympia bring
     My votive offering.
If before all God’s truth be not bade plain.
     O Zeus, reveal thy might,
     King, if thou’rt named aright
Omnipotent, all-seeing, as of old;
     For Laius is forgot;
     His weird, men heed it not;
Apollo is forsook and faith grows cold.
[Enter JOCASTA.]

JOCASTA.
My lords, ye look amazed to see your queen
With wreaths and gifts of incense in her hands.
I had a mind to visit the high shrines,
For Oedipus is overwrought, alarmed
With terrors manifold. He will not use
His past experience, like a man of sense,
To judge the present need, but lends an ear
To any croaker if he augurs ill.
Since then my counsels naught avail, I turn
To thee, our present help in time of trouble,
Apollo, Lord Lycean, and to thee
My prayers and supplications here I bring.
Lighten us, lord, and cleanse us from this curse!
For now we all are cowed like mariners
Who see their helmsman dumbstruck in the storm.
[Enter Corinthian MESSENGER.]

MESSENGER.
My masters, tell me where the palace is
Of Oedipus; or better, where’s the king.

CHORUS.
Here is the palace and he bides within;
This is his queen the mother of his children.

MESSENGER.
All happiness attend her and the house,
Blessed is her husband and her marriage-bed.

JOCASTA.
My greetings to thee, stranger; thy fair words
Deserve a like response. But tell me why
Thou comest—what thy need or what thy news.

MESSENGER.
Good for thy consort and the royal house.

JOCASTA.
What may it be? Whose messenger art thou?

MESSENGER.
The Isthmian commons have resolved to make
Thy husband king—so ’twas reported there.

JOCASTA.
What! is not aged Polybus still king?

MESSENGER.
No, verily; he’s dead and in his grave.

JOCASTA.
What! is he dead, the sire of Oedipus?

MESSENGER.
If I speak falsely, may I die myself.

JOCASTA.
Quick, maiden, bear these tidings to my lord.
Ye god-sent oracles, where stand ye now!
This is the man whom Oedipus long shunned,
In dread to prove his murderer; and now
He dies in nature’s course, not by his hand.
[Enter OEDIPUS.]

OEDIPUS.
My wife, my queen, Jocasta, why hast thou
Summoned me from my palace?

JOCASTA.
                              Hear this man,
And as thou hearest judge what has become
Of all those awe-inspiring oracles.

OEDIPUS.
Who is this man, and what his news for me?

JOCASTA.
He comes from Corinth and his message this:
Thy father Polybus hath passed away.

OEDIPUS.
What? let me have it, stranger, from thy mouth.

MESSENGER.
If I must first make plain beyond a doubt
My message, know that Polybus is dead.

OEDIPUS.
By treachery, or by sickness visited?

MESSENGER.
One touch will send an old man to his rest.

OEDIPUS.
So of some malady he died, poor man.

MESSENGER.
Yes, having measured the full span of years.

OEDIPUS.
Out on it, lady! why should one regard
The Pythian hearth or birds that scream i’ the air?
Did they not point at me as doomed to slay
My father? but he’s dead and in his grave
And here am I who ne’er unsheathed a sword;
Unless the longing for his absent son
Killed him and so _I_ slew him in a sense.
But, as they stand, the oracles are dead—
Dust, ashes, nothing, dead as Polybus.

JOCASTA.
Say, did not I foretell this long ago?

OEDIPUS.
Thou didst: but I was misled by my fear.

JOCASTA.
Then let I no more weigh upon thy soul.

OEDIPUS.
Must I not fear my mother’s marriage bed.

JOCASTA.
Why should a mortal man, the sport of chance,
With no assured foreknowledge, be afraid?
Best live a careless life from hand to mouth.
This wedlock with thy mother fear not thou.
How oft it chances that in dreams a man
Has wed his mother! He who least regards
Such brainsick phantasies lives most at ease.

OEDIPUS.
I should have shared in full thy confidence,
Were not my mother living; since she lives
Though half convinced I still must live in dread.

JOCASTA.
And yet thy sire’s death lights out darkness much.

OEDIPUS.
Much, but my fear is touching her who lives.

MESSENGER.
Who may this woman be whom thus you fear?

OEDIPUS.
Merope, stranger, wife of Polybus.

MESSENGER.
And what of her can cause you any fear?

OEDIPUS.
A heaven-sent oracle of dread import.

MESSENGER.
A mystery, or may a stranger hear it?

OEDIPUS.
Aye, ’tis no secret. Loxias once foretold
That I should mate with mine own mother, and shed
With my own hands the blood of my own sire.
Hence Corinth was for many a year to me
A home distant; and I trove abroad,
But missed the sweetest sight, my parents’ face.

MESSENGER.
Was this the fear that exiled thee from home?

OEDIPUS.
Yea, and the dread of slaying my own sire.

MESSENGER.
Why, since I came to give thee pleasure, King,
Have I not rid thee of this second fear?

OEDIPUS.
Well, thou shalt have due guerdon for thy pains.

MESSENGER.
Well, I confess what chiefly made me come
Was hope to profit by thy coming home.

OEDIPUS.
Nay, I will ne’er go near my parents more.

MESSENGER.
My son, ’tis plain, thou know’st not what thou doest.

OEDIPUS.
How so, old man? For heaven’s sake tell me all.

MESSENGER.
If this is why thou dreadest to return.

OEDIPUS.
Yea, lest the god’s word be fulfilled in me.

MESSENGER.
Lest through thy parents thou shouldst be accursed?

OEDIPUS.
This and none other is my constant dread.

MESSENGER.
Dost thou not know thy fears are baseless all?

OEDIPUS.
How baseless, if I am their very son?

MESSENGER.
Since Polybus was naught to thee in blood.

OEDIPUS.
What say’st thou? was not Polybus my sire?

MESSENGER.
As much thy sire as I am, and no more.

OEDIPUS.
My sire no more to me than one who is naught?

MESSENGER.
Since I begat thee not, no more did he.

OEDIPUS.
What reason had he then to call me son?

MESSENGER.
Know that he took thee from my hands, a gift.

OEDIPUS.
Yet, if no child of his, he loved me well.

MESSENGER.
A childless man till then, he warmed to thee.

OEDIPUS.
A foundling or a purchased slave, this child?

MESSENGER.
I found thee in Cithaeron’s wooded glens.

OEDIPUS.
What led thee to explore those upland glades?

MESSENGER.
My business was to tend the mountain flocks.

OEDIPUS.
A vagrant shepherd journeying for hire?

MESSENGER.
True, but thy savior in that hour, my son.

OEDIPUS.
My savior? from what harm? what ailed me then?

MESSENGER.
Those ankle joints are evidence enow.

OEDIPUS.
Ah, why remind me of that ancient sore?

MESSENGER.
I loosed the pin that riveted thy feet.

OEDIPUS.
Yes, from my cradle that dread brand I bore.

MESSENGER.
Whence thou deriv’st the name that still is thine.

OEDIPUS.
Who did it? I adjure thee, tell me who
Say, was it father, mother?

MESSENGER.
                              I know not.
The man from whom I had thee may know more.

OEDIPUS.
What, did another find me, not thyself?

MESSENGER.
Not I; another shepherd gave thee me.

OEDIPUS.
Who was he? Would’st thou know again the man?

MESSENGER.
He passed indeed for one of Laius’ house.

OEDIPUS.
The king who ruled the country long ago?

MESSENGER.
The same: he was a herdsman of the king.

OEDIPUS.
And is he living still for me to see him?

MESSENGER.
His fellow-countrymen should best know that.

OEDIPUS.
Doth any bystander among you know
The herd he speaks of, or by seeing him
Afield or in the city? answer straight!
The hour hath come to clear this business up.

CHORUS.
Methinks he means none other than the hind
Whom thou anon wert fain to see; but that
Our queen Jocasta best of all could tell.

OEDIPUS.
Madam, dost know the man we sent to fetch?
Is the same of whom the stranger speaks?

JOCASTA.
Who is the man? What matter? Let it be.
’Twere waste of thought to weigh such idle words.

OEDIPUS.
No, with such guiding clues I cannot fail
To bring to light the secret of my birth.

JOCASTA.
Oh, as thou carest for thy life, give o’er
This quest. Enough the anguish _I_ endure.

OEDIPUS.
Be of good cheer; though I be proved the son
Of a bondwoman, aye, through three descents
Triply a slave, thy honor is unsmirched.

JOCASTA.
Yet humor me, I pray thee; do not this.

OEDIPUS.
I cannot; I must probe this matter home.

JOCASTA.
’Tis for thy sake I advise thee for the best.

OEDIPUS.
I grow impatient of this best advice.

JOCASTA.
Ah mayst thou ne’er discover who thou art!

OEDIPUS.
Go, fetch me here the herd, and leave yon woman
To glory in her pride of ancestry.

JOCASTA.
O woe is thee, poor wretch! With that last word
I leave thee, henceforth silent evermore.
[Exit JOCASTA]

CHORUS.
Why, Oedipus, why stung with passionate grief
Hath the queen thus departed? Much I fear
From this dead calm will burst a storm of woes.

OEDIPUS.
Let the storm burst, my fixed resolve still holds,
To learn my lineage, be it ne’er so low.
It may be she with all a woman’s pride
Thinks scorn of my base parentage. But I
Who rank myself as Fortune’s favorite child,
The giver of good gifts, shall not be shamed.
She is my mother and the changing moons
My brethren, and with them I wax and wane.
Thus sprung why should I fear to trace my birth?
Nothing can make me other than I am.

CHORUS.
(Str.)
If my soul prophetic err not, if my wisdom aught avail,
          Thee, Cithaeron, I shall hail,
As the nurse and foster-mother of our Oedipus shall greet
Ere tomorrow’s full moon rises, and exalt thee as is meet.
Dance and song shall hymn thy praises, lover of our royal race.
          Phoebus, may my words find grace!

(Ant.)
Child, who bare thee, nymph or goddess? sure thy sure was more than
man,
          Haply the hill-roamer Pan.
Of did Loxias beget thee, for he haunts the upland wold;
Or Cyllene’s lord, or Bacchus, dweller on the hilltops cold?
Did some Heliconian Oread give him thee, a new-born joy?
          Nymphs with whom he love to toy?

OEDIPUS.
Elders, if I, who never yet before
Have met the man, may make a guess, methinks
I see the herdsman who we long have sought;
His time-worn aspect matches with the years
Of yonder aged messenger; besides
I seem to recognize the men who bring him
As servants of my own. But you, perchance,
Having in past days known or seen the herd,
May better by sure knowledge my surmise.

CHORUS.
I recognize him; one of Laius’ house;
A simple hind, but true as any man.
[Enter HERDSMAN.]

OEDIPUS.
Corinthian, stranger, I address thee first,
Is this the man thou meanest!

MESSENGER.
                              This is he.

OEDIPUS.
And now old man, look up and answer all
I ask thee. Wast thou once of Laius’ house?

HERDSMAN.
I was, a thrall, not purchased but home-bred.

OEDIPUS.
What was thy business? how wast thou employed?

HERDSMAN.
The best part of my life I tended sheep.

OEDIPUS.
What were the pastures thou didst most frequent?

HERDSMAN.
Cithaeron and the neighboring alps.

OEDIPUS.
                                   Then there
Thou must have known yon man, at least by fame?

HERDSMAN.
Yon man? in what way? what man dost thou mean?

OEDIPUS.
The man here, having met him in past times...

HERDSMAN.
Off-hand I cannot call him well to mind.

MESSENGER.
No wonder, master. But I will revive
His blunted memories. Sure he can recall
What time together both we drove our flocks,
He two, I one, on the Cithaeron range,
For three long summers; I his mate from spring
Till rose Arcturus; then in winter time
I led mine home, he his to Laius’ folds.
Did these things happen as I say, or no?

HERDSMAN.
’Tis long ago, but all thou say’st is true.

MESSENGER.
Well, thou mast then remember giving me
A child to rear as my own foster-son?

HERDSMAN.
Why dost thou ask this question? What of that?

MESSENGER.
Friend, he that stands before thee was that child.

HERDSMAN.
A plague upon thee! Hold thy wanton tongue!

OEDIPUS.
Softly, old man, rebuke him not; thy words
Are more deserving chastisement than his.

HERDSMAN.
O best of masters, what is my offense?

OEDIPUS.
Not answering what he asks about the child.

HERDSMAN.
He speaks at random, babbles like a fool.

OEDIPUS.
If thou lack’st grace to speak, I’ll loose thy tongue.

HERDSMAN.
For mercy’s sake abuse not an old man.

OEDIPUS.
Arrest the villain, seize and pinion him!

HERDSMAN.
Alack, alack!
What have I done? what wouldst thou further learn?

OEDIPUS.
Didst give this man the child of whom he asks?

HERDSMAN.
I did; and would that I had died that day!

OEDIPUS.
And die thou shalt unless thou tell the truth.

HERDSMAN.
But, if I tell it, I am doubly lost.

OEDIPUS.
The knave methinks will still prevaricate.

HERDSMAN.
Nay, I confessed I gave it long ago.

OEDIPUS.
Whence came it? was it thine, or given to thee?

HERDSMAN.
I had it from another, ’twas not mine.

OEDIPUS.
From whom of these our townsmen, and what house?

HERDSMAN.
Forbear for God’s sake, master, ask no more.

OEDIPUS.
If I must question thee again, thou’rt lost.

HERDSMAN.
Well then—it was a child of Laius’ house.

OEDIPUS.
Slave-born or one of Laius’ own race?

HERDSMAN.
Ah me!
I stand upon the perilous edge of speech.

OEDIPUS.
And I of hearing, but I still must hear.

HERDSMAN.
Know then the child was by repute his own,
But she within, thy consort best could tell.

OEDIPUS.
What! she, she gave it thee?

HERDSMAN.
                              ’Tis so, my king.

OEDIPUS.
With what intent?

HERDSMAN.
                    To make away with it.

OEDIPUS.
What, she its mother.

HERDSMAN.
                    Fearing a dread weird.

OEDIPUS.
What weird?

HERDSMAN.
          ’Twas told that he should slay his sire.

OEDIPUS.
What didst thou give it then to this old man?

HERDSMAN.
Through pity, master, for the babe. I thought
He’d take it to the country whence he came;
But he preserved it for the worst of woes.
For if thou art in sooth what this man saith,
God pity thee! thou wast to misery born.

OEDIPUS.
Ah me! ah me! all brought to pass, all true!
O light, may I behold thee nevermore!
I stand a wretch, in birth, in wedlock cursed,
A parricide, incestuously, triply cursed!
[Exit OEDIPUS]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
          Races of mortal man
          Whose life is but a span,
I count ye but the shadow of a shade!
          For he who most doth know
          Of bliss, hath but the show;
A moment, and the visions pale and fade.
Thy fall, O Oedipus, thy piteous fall
Warns me none born of women blest to call.

(Ant. 1)
          For he of marksmen best,
          O Zeus, outshot the rest,
And won the prize supreme of wealth and power.
          By him the vulture maid
          Was quelled, her witchery laid;
He rose our savior and the land’s strong tower.
We hailed thee king and from that day adored
Of mighty Thebes the universal lord.

(Str. 2)
          O heavy hand of fate!
          Who now more desolate,
Whose tale more sad than thine, whose lot more dire?
          O Oedipus, discrowned head,
          Thy cradle was thy marriage bed;
One harborage sufficed for son and sire.
How could the soil thy father eared so long
Endure to bear in silence such a wrong?

(Ant. 2)
          All-seeing Time hath caught
          Guilt, and to justice brought
The son and sire commingled in one bed.
          O child of Laius’ ill-starred race
          Would I had ne’er beheld thy face;
I raise for thee a dirge as o’er the dead.
Yet, sooth to say, through thee I drew new breath,
And now through thee I feel a second death.
[Enter SECOND MESSENGER.]

SECOND MESSENGER.
Most grave and reverend senators of Thebes,
What Deeds ye soon must hear, what sights behold
How will ye mourn, if, true-born patriots,
Ye reverence still the race of Labdacus!
Not Ister nor all Phasis’ flood, I ween,
Could wash away the blood-stains from this house,
The ills it shrouds or soon will bring to light,
Ills wrought of malice, not unwittingly.
The worst to bear are self-inflicted wounds.

CHORUS.
Grievous enough for all our tears and groans
Our past calamities; what canst thou add?

SECOND MESSENGER.
My tale is quickly told and quickly heard.
Our sovereign lady queen Jocasta’s dead.

CHORUS.
Alas, poor queen! how came she by her death?

SECOND MESSENGER.
By her own hand. And all the horror of it,
Not having seen, yet cannot comprehend.
Nathless, as far as my poor memory serves,
I will relate the unhappy lady’s woe.
When in her frenzy she had passed inside
The vestibule, she hurried straight to win
The bridal-chamber, clutching at her hair
With both her hands, and, once within the room,
She shut the doors behind her with a crash.
“Laius,” she cried, and called her husband dead
Long, long ago; her thought was of that child
By him begot, the son by whom the sire
Was murdered and the mother left to breed
With her own seed, a monstrous progeny.
Then she bewailed the marriage bed whereon
Poor wretch, she had conceived a double brood,
Husband by husband, children by her child.
What happened after that I cannot tell,
Nor how the end befell, for with a shriek
Burst on us Oedipus; all eyes were fixed
On Oedipus, as up and down he strode,
Nor could we mark her agony to the end.
For stalking to and fro “A sword!” he cried,
“Where is the wife, no wife, the teeming womb
That bore a double harvest, me and mine?”
And in his frenzy some supernal power
(No mortal, surely, none of us who watched him)
Guided his footsteps; with a terrible shriek,
As though one beckoned him, he crashed against
The folding doors, and from their staples forced
The wrenched bolts and hurled himself within.
Then we beheld the woman hanging there,
A running noose entwined about her neck.
But when he saw her, with a maddened roar
He loosed the cord; and when her wretched corpse
Lay stretched on earth, what followed—O ’twas dread!
He tore the golden brooches that upheld
Her queenly robes, upraised them high and smote
Full on his eye-balls, uttering words like these:
“No more shall ye behold such sights of woe,
Deeds I have suffered and myself have wrought;
Henceforward quenched in darkness shall ye see
Those ye should ne’er have seen; now blind to those
Whom, when I saw, I vainly yearned to know.”
     Such was the burden of his moan, whereto,
Not once but oft, he struck with his hand uplift
His eyes, and at each stroke the ensanguined orbs
Bedewed his beard, not oozing drop by drop,
But one black gory downpour, thick as hail.
Such evils, issuing from the double source,
Have whelmed them both, confounding man and wife.
Till now the storied fortune of this house
Was fortunate indeed; but from this day
Woe, lamentation, ruin, death, disgrace,
All ills that can be named, all, all are theirs.

CHORUS.
But hath he still no respite from his pain?

SECOND MESSENGER.
He cries, “Unbar the doors and let all Thebes
Behold the slayer of his sire, his mother’s—”
That shameful word my lips may not repeat.
He vows to fly self-banished from the land,
Nor stay to bring upon his house the curse
Himself had uttered; but he has no strength
Nor one to guide him, and his torture’s more
Than man can suffer, as yourselves will see.
For lo, the palace portals are unbarred,
And soon ye shall behold a sight so sad
That he who must abhorred would pity it.
[Enter OEDIPUS blinded.]

CHORUS.
          Woeful sight! more woeful none
          These sad eyes have looked upon.
          Whence this madness? None can tell
          Who did cast on thee his spell,
          prowling all thy life around,
          Leaping with a demon bound.
          Hapless wretch! how can I brook
          On thy misery to look?
          Though to gaze on thee I yearn,
          Much to question, much to learn,
          Horror-struck away I turn.

OEDIPUS.
Ah me! ah woe is me!
Ah whither am I borne!
How like a ghost forlorn
My voice flits from me on the air!
On, on the demon goads. The end, ah where?

CHORUS.
An end too dread to tell, too dark to see.

OEDIPUS.
(Str. 1)
Dark, dark! The horror of darkness, like a shroud,
Wraps me and bears me on through mist and cloud.
Ah me, ah me! What spasms athwart me shoot,
What pangs of agonizing memory?

CHORUS.
No marvel if in such a plight thou feel’st
The double weight of past and present woes.

OEDIPUS.
(Ant. 1)
Ah friend, still loyal, constant still and kind,
          Thou carest for the blind.
I know thee near, and though bereft of eyes,
          Thy voice I recognize.

CHORUS.
O doer of dread deeds, how couldst thou mar
Thy vision thus? What demon goaded thee?

OEDIPUS.
(Str. 2)
Apollo, friend, Apollo, he it was
          That brought these ills to pass;
But the right hand that dealt the blow
          Was mine, none other. How,
How, could I longer see when sight
          Brought no delight?

CHORUS.
Alas! ’tis as thou sayest.

OEDIPUS.
Say, friends, can any look or voice
Or touch of love henceforth my heart rejoice?
          Haste, friends, no fond delay,
          Take the twice cursed away
               Far from all ken,
The man abhorred of gods, accursed of men.

CHORUS.
O thy despair well suits thy desperate case.
Would I had never looked upon thy face!

OEDIPUS.
(Ant. 2)
My curse on him whoe’er unrived
The waif’s fell fetters and my life revived!
He meant me well, yet had he left me there,
He had saved my friends and me a world of care.

CHORUS.
I too had wished it so.

OEDIPUS.
Then had I never come to shed
My father’s blood nor climbed my mother’s bed;
The monstrous offspring of a womb defiled,
Co-mate of him who gendered me, and child.
Was ever man before afflicted thus,
Like Oedipus.

CHORUS.
I cannot say that thou hast counseled well,
For thou wert better dead than living blind.

OEDIPUS.
What’s done was well done. Thou canst never shake
My firm belief. A truce to argument.
For, had I sight, I know not with what eyes
I could have met my father in the shades,
Or my poor mother, since against the twain
I sinned, a sin no gallows could atone.
Aye, but, ye say, the sight of children joys
A parent’s eyes. What, born as mine were born?
No, such a sight could never bring me joy;
Nor this fair city with its battlements,
Its temples and the statues of its gods,
Sights from which I, now wretchedst of all,
Once ranked the foremost Theban in all Thebes,
By my own sentence am cut off, condemned
By my own proclamation ’gainst the wretch,
The miscreant by heaven itself declared
Unclean—and of the race of Laius.
Thus branded as a felon by myself,
How had I dared to look you in the face?
Nay, had I known a way to choke the springs
Of hearing, I had never shrunk to make
A dungeon of this miserable frame,
Cut off from sight and hearing; for ’tis bliss
to bide in regions sorrow cannot reach.
Why didst thou harbor me, Cithaeron, why
Didst thou not take and slay me? Then I never
Had shown to men the secret of my birth.
O Polybus, O Corinth, O my home,
Home of my ancestors (so wast thou called)
How fair a nursling then I seemed, how foul
The canker that lay festering in the bud!
Now is the blight revealed of root and fruit.
Ye triple high-roads, and thou hidden glen,
Coppice, and pass where meet the three-branched ways,
Ye drank my blood, the life-blood these hands spilt,
My father’s; do ye call to mind perchance
Those deeds of mine ye witnessed and the work
I wrought thereafter when I came to Thebes?
O fatal wedlock, thou didst give me birth,
And, having borne me, sowed again my seed,
Mingling the blood of fathers, brothers, children,
Brides, wives and mothers, an incestuous brood,
All horrors that are wrought beneath the sun,
Horrors so foul to name them were unmeet.
O, I adjure you, hide me anywhere
Far from this land, or slay me straight, or cast me
Down to the depths of ocean out of sight.
Come hither, deign to touch an abject wretch;
Draw near and fear not; I myself must bear
The load of guilt that none but I can share.
[Enter CREON.]

CREON.
Lo, here is Creon, the one man to grant
Thy prayer by action or advice, for he
Is left the State’s sole guardian in thy stead.

OEDIPUS.
Ah me! what words to accost him can I find?
What cause has he to trust me? In the past
I have bee proved his rancorous enemy.

CREON.
Not in derision, Oedipus, I come
Nor to upbraid thee with thy past misdeeds.
(To BYSTANDERS)
But shame upon you! if ye feel no sense
Of human decencies, at least revere
The Sun whose light beholds and nurtures all.
Leave not thus nakedly for all to gaze at
A horror neither earth nor rain from heaven
Nor light will suffer. Lead him straight within,
For it is seemly that a kinsman’s woes
Be heard by kin and seen by kin alone.

OEDIPUS.
O listen, since thy presence comes to me
A shock of glad surprise—so noble thou,
And I so vile—O grant me one small boon.
I ask it not on my behalf, but thine.

CREON.
And what the favor thou wouldst crave of me?

OEDIPUS.
Forth from thy borders thrust me with all speed;
Set me within some vasty desert where
No mortal voice shall greet me any more.

CREON.
This had I done already, but I deemed
It first behooved me to consult the god.

OEDIPUS.
His will was set forth fully—to destroy
The parricide, the scoundrel; and I am he.

CREON.
Yea, so he spake, but in our present plight
’Twere better to consult the god anew.

OEDIPUS.
Dare ye inquire concerning such a wretch?

CREON.
Yea, for thyself wouldst credit now his word.

OEDIPUS.
Aye, and on thee in all humility
I lay this charge: let her who lies within
Receive such burial as thou shalt ordain;
Such rites ’tis thine, as brother, to perform.
But for myself, O never let my Thebes,
The city of my sires, be doomed to bear
The burden of my presence while I live.
No, let me be a dweller on the hills,
On yonder mount Cithaeron, famed as mine,
My tomb predestined for me by my sire
And mother, while they lived, that I may die
Slain as they sought to slay me, when alive.
This much I know full surely, nor disease
Shall end my days, nor any common chance;
For I had ne’er been snatched from death, unless
I was predestined to some awful doom.
     So be it. I reck not how Fate deals with me
But my unhappy children—for my sons
Be not concerned, O Creon, they are men,
And for themselves, where’er they be, can fend.
But for my daughters twain, poor innocent maids,
Who ever sat beside me at the board
Sharing my viands, drinking of my cup,
For them, I pray thee, care, and, if thou willst,
O might I feel their touch and make my moan.
Hear me, O prince, my noble-hearted prince!
Could I but blindly touch them with my hands
I’d think they still were mine, as when I saw.
[ANTIGONE and ISMENE are led in.]
What say I? can it be my pretty ones
Whose sobs I hear? Has Creon pitied me
And sent me my two darlings? Can this be?

CREON.
’Tis true; ’twas I procured thee this delight,
Knowing the joy they were to thee of old.

OEDIPUS.
God speed thee! and as meed for bringing them
May Providence deal with thee kindlier
Than it has dealt with me! O children mine,
Where are ye? Let me clasp you with these hands,
A brother’s hands, a father’s; hands that made
Lack-luster sockets of his once bright eyes;
Hands of a man who blindly, recklessly,
Became your sire by her from whom he sprang.
Though I cannot behold you, I must weep
In thinking of the evil days to come,
The slights and wrongs that men will put upon you.
Where’er ye go to feast or festival,
No merrymaking will it prove for you,
But oft abashed in tears ye will return.
And when ye come to marriageable years,
Where’s the bold wooers who will jeopardize
To take unto himself such disrepute
As to my children’s children still must cling,
For what of infamy is lacking here?
“Their father slew his father, sowed the seed
Where he himself was gendered, and begat
These maidens at the source wherefrom he sprang.”
Such are the gibes that men will cast at you.
Who then will wed you? None, I ween, but ye
Must pine, poor maids, in single barrenness.
O Prince, Menoeceus’ son, to thee, I turn,
With the it rests to father them, for we
Their natural parents, both of us, are lost.
O leave them not to wander poor, unwed,
Thy kin, nor let them share my low estate.
O pity them so young, and but for thee
All destitute. Thy hand upon it, Prince.
To you, my children I had much to say,
Were ye but ripe to hear. Let this suffice:
Pray ye may find some home and live content,
And may your lot prove happier than your sire’s.

CREON.
Thou hast had enough of weeping; pass within.

OEDIPUS.
                                             I must obey,
Though ’tis grievous.

CREON.
                         Weep not, everything must have its day.

OEDIPUS.
Well I go, but on conditions.

CREON.
                              What thy terms for going, say.

OEDIPUS.
Send me from the land an exile.

CREON.
                              Ask this of the gods, not me.

OEDIPUS.
But I am the gods’ abhorrence.

CREON.
                              Then they soon will grant thy plea.

OEDIPUS.
Lead me hence, then, I am willing.

CREON.
                                   Come, but let thy children go.

OEDIPUS.
Rob me not of these my children!

CREON.
                                   Crave not mastery in all,
For the mastery that raised thee was thy bane and wrought thy fall.

CHORUS.
Look ye, countrymen and Thebans, this is Oedipus the great,
He who knew the Sphinx’s riddle and was mightiest in our state.
Who of all our townsmen gazed not on his fame with envious eyes?
Now, in what a sea of troubles sunk and overwhelmed he lies!
Therefore wait to see life’s ending ere thou count one mortal blest;
Wait till free from pain and sorrow he has gained his final rest.

FOOTNOTES

1 (return)
[ Dr. Kennedy and others render “Since to men of experience I see that
also comparisons of their counsels are in most lively use.”]

2 (return)
[ Literally “not to call them thine,” but the Greek may be rendered “In
order not to reveal thine.”]

3 (return)
[ The Greek text that occurs in this place has been lost.]

OEDIPUS AT COLONUS

Translation by F. Storr, BA
Formerly Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge
From the Loeb Library Edition
Originally published by
Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA
and
William Heinemann Ltd, London
First published in 1912

ARGUMENT

Oedipus, the blind and banished King of Thebes, has come in his
wanderings to Colonus, a deme of Athens, led by his daughter Antigone.
He sits to rest on a rock just within a sacred grove of the Furies and
is bidden depart by a passing native. But Oedipus, instructed by an
oracle that he had reached his final resting-place, refuses to stir,
and the stranger consents to go and consult the Elders of Colonus (the
Chorus of the Play). Conducted to the spot they pity at first the blind
beggar and his daughter, but on learning his name they are
horror-striken and order him to quit the land. He appeals to the
world-famed hospitality of Athens and hints at the blessings that his
coming will confer on the State. They agree to await the decision of
King Theseus. From Theseus Oedipus craves protection in life and burial
in Attic soil; the benefits that will accrue shall be told later.
Theseus departs having promised to aid and befriend him. No sooner has
he gone than Creon enters with an armed guard who seize Antigone and
carry her off (Ismene, the other sister, they have already captured)
and he is about to lay hands on Oedipus, when Theseus, who has heard
the tumult, hurries up and, upbraiding Creon for his lawless act,
threatens to detain him till he has shown where the captives are and
restored them. In the next scene Theseus returns bringing with him the
rescued maidens. He informs Oedipus that a stranger who has taken
sanctuary at the altar of Poseidon wishes to see him. It is Polyneices
who has come to crave his father’s forgiveness and blessing, knowing by
an oracle that victory will fall to the side that Oedipus espouses. But
Oedipus spurns the hypocrite, and invokes a dire curse on both his
unnatural sons. A sudden clap of thunder is heard, and as peal follows
peal, Oedipus is aware that his hour is come and bids Antigone summon
Theseus. Self-guided he leads the way to the spot where death should
overtake him, attended by Theseus and his daughters. Halfway he bids
his daughters farewell, and what followed none but Theseus knew. He was
not (so the Messenger reports) for the gods took him.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

OEDIPUS, banished King of Thebes.
ANTIGONE, his daughter.
ISMENE, his daughter.
THESEUS, King of Athens.
CREON, brother of Jocasta, now reigning at Thebes.
POLYNEICES, elder son of Oedipus.
STRANGER, a native of Colonus.
MESSENGER, an attendant of Theseus.
CHORUS, citizens of Colonus.

     Scene: In front of the grove of the Eumenides.

OEDIPUS AT COLONUS

Enter the blind OEDIPUS led by his daughter, ANTIGONE.

OEDIPUS.
Child of an old blind sire, Antigone,
What region, say, whose city have we reached?
Who will provide today with scanted dole
This wanderer? ’Tis little that he craves,
And less obtains—that less enough for me;
For I am taught by suffering to endure,
And the long years that have grown old with me,
And last not least, by true nobility.
My daughter, if thou seest a resting place
On common ground or by some sacred grove,
Stay me and set me down. Let us discover
Where we have come, for strangers must inquire
Of denizens, and do as they are bid.

ANTIGONE.
Long-suffering father, Oedipus, the towers
That fence the city still are faint and far;
But where we stand is surely holy ground;
A wilderness of laurel, olive, vine;
Within a choir or songster nightingales
Are warbling. On this native seat of rock
Rest; for an old man thou hast traveled far.

OEDIPUS.
Guide these dark steps and seat me there secure.

ANTIGONE.
If time can teach, I need not to be told.

OEDIPUS.
Say, prithee, if thou knowest, where we are.

ANTIGONE.
Athens I recognize, but not the spot.

OEDIPUS.
That much we heard from every wayfarer.

ANTIGONE.
Shall I go on and ask about the place?

OEDIPUS.
Yes, daughter, if it be inhabited.

ANTIGONE.
Sure there are habitations; but no need
To leave thee; yonder is a man hard by.

OEDIPUS.
What, moving hitherward and on his way?

ANTIGONE.
Say rather, here already. Ask him straight
The needful questions, for the man is here.
[Enter STRANGER]

OEDIPUS.
O stranger, as I learn from her whose eyes
Must serve both her and me, that thou art here
Sent by some happy chance to serve our doubts—

STRANGER.
First quit that seat, then question me at large:
The spot thou treadest on is holy ground.

OEDIPUS.
What is the site, to what god dedicate?

STRANGER.
Inviolable, untrod; goddesses,
Dread brood of Earth and Darkness, here abide.

OEDIPUS.
Tell me the awful name I should invoke?

STRANGER.
The Gracious Ones, All-seeing, so our folk
Call them, but elsewhere other names are rife.

OEDIPUS.
Then may they show their suppliant grace, for I
From this your sanctuary will ne’er depart.

STRANGER.
What word is this?

OEDIPUS.
                    The watchword of my fate.

STRANGER.
Nay, ’tis not mine to bid thee hence without
Due warrant and instruction from the State.

OEDIPUS.
Now in God’s name, O stranger, scorn me not
As a wayfarer; tell me what I crave.

STRANGER.
Ask; your request shall not be scorned by me.

OEDIPUS.
How call you then the place wherein we bide?

STRANGER.
Whate’er I know thou too shalt know; the place
Is all to great Poseidon consecrate.
Hard by, the Titan, he who bears the torch,
Prometheus, has his worship; but the spot
Thou treadest, the Brass-footed Threshold named,
Is Athens’ bastion, and the neighboring lands
Claim as their chief and patron yonder knight
Colonus, and in common bear his name.
Such, stranger, is the spot, to fame unknown,
But dear to us its native worshipers.

OEDIPUS.
Thou sayest there are dwellers in these parts?

STRANGER.
Surely; they bear the name of yonder god.

OEDIPUS.
Ruled by a king or by the general voice?

STRANGER.
The lord of Athens is our over-lord.

OEDIPUS.
Who is this monarch, great in word and might?

STRANGER.
Theseus, the son of Aegeus our late king.

OEDIPUS.
Might one be sent from you to summon him?

STRANGER.
Wherefore? To tell him aught or urge his coming?

OEDIPUS.
Say a slight service may avail him much.

STRANGER.
How can he profit from a sightless man?

OEDIPUS.
The blind man’s words will be instinct with sight.

STRANGER.
Heed then; I fain would see thee out of harm;
For by the looks, marred though they be by fate,
I judge thee noble; tarry where thou art,
While I go seek the burghers—those at hand,
Not in the city. They will soon decide
Whether thou art to rest or go thy way.
[Exit STRANGER]

OEDIPUS.
Tell me, my daughter, has the stranger gone?

ANTIGONE.
Yes, he has gone; now we are all alone,
And thou may’st speak, dear father, without fear.

OEDIPUS.
Stern-visaged queens, since coming to this land
First in your sanctuary I bent the knee,
Frown not on me or Phoebus, who, when erst
He told me all my miseries to come,
Spake of this respite after many years,
Some haven in a far-off land, a rest
Vouchsafed at last by dread divinities.
“There,” said he, “shalt thou round thy weary life,
A blessing to the land wherein thou dwell’st,
But to the land that cast thee forth, a curse.”
And of my weird he promised signs should come,
Earthquake, or thunderclap, or lightning flash.
And now I recognize as yours the sign
That led my wanderings to this your grove;
Else had I never lighted on you first,
A wineless man on your seat of native rock.
O goddesses, fulfill Apollo’s word,
Grant me some consummation of my life,
If haply I appear not all too vile,
A thrall to sorrow worse than any slave.
Hear, gentle daughters of primeval Night,
Hear, namesake of great Pallas; Athens, first
Of cities, pity this dishonored shade,
The ghost of him who once was Oedipus.

ANTIGONE.
Hush! for I see some grey-beards on their way,
Their errand to spy out our resting-place.

OEDIPUS.
I will be mute, and thou shalt guide my steps
Into the covert from the public road,
Till I have learned their drift. A prudent man
Will ever shape his course by what he learns.
[Enter CHORUS]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Ha! Where is he? Look around!
Every nook and corner scan!
He the all-presumptuous man,
Whither vanished? search the ground!
A wayfarer, I ween,
A wayfarer, no countryman of ours,
That old man must have been;
Never had native dared to tempt the Powers,
          Or enter their demesne,
The Maids in awe of whom each mortal cowers,
          Whose name no voice betrays nor cry,
          And as we pass them with averted eye,
We move hushed lips in reverent piety.
          But now some godless man,
               ’Tis rumored, here abides;
          The precincts through I scan,
               Yet wot not where he hides,
                    The wretch profane!
                    I search and search in vain.

OEDIPUS.
          I am that man; I know you near
          Ears to the blind, they say, are eyes.

CHORUS.
          O dread to see and dread to hear!

OEDIPUS.
Oh sirs, I am no outlaw under ban.

CHORUS.
Who can he be—Zeus save us!—this old man?

OEDIPUS.
No favorite of fate,
That ye should envy his estate,
O, Sirs, would any happy mortal, say,
Grope by the light of other eyes his way,
Or face the storm upon so frail a stay?

CHORUS.
(Ant. 1)
Wast thou then sightless from thy birth?
Evil, methinks, and long
Thy pilgrimage on earth.
Yet add not curse to curse and wrong to wrong.
          I warn thee, trespass not
          Within this hallowed spot,
Lest thou shouldst find the silent grassy glade
          Where offerings are laid,
Bowls of spring water mingled with sweet mead.
          Thou must not stay,
          Come, come away,
          Tired wanderer, dost thou heed?
(We are far off, but sure our voice can reach.)
          If aught thou wouldst beseech,
Speak where ’tis right; till then refrain from speech.

OEDIPUS.
Daughter, what counsel should we now pursue?

ANTIGONE.
We must obey and do as here they do.

OEDIPUS.
Thy hand then!

ANTIGONE.
               Here, O father, is my hand,

OEDIPUS.
O Sirs, if I come forth at your command,
Let me not suffer for my confidence.

CHORUS.
(Str. 2)
Against thy will no man shall drive thee hence.

OEDIPUS.
Shall I go further?

CHORUS.
                    Aye.

OEDIPUS.
                         What further still?

CHORUS.
Lead maiden, thou canst guide him where we will.

ANTIGONE 4
*       *        *        *        *        *

OEDIPUS.
*       *        *        *        *        *

ANTIGONE.
*       *        *        *        *        *
Follow with blind steps, father, as I lead.

OEDIPUS.

*       *        *        *        *        *

CHORUS.
In a strange land strange thou art;
To her will incline thy heart;
Honor whatso’er the State
Honors, all she frowns on hate.

OEDIPUS.
Guide me child, where we may range
Safe within the paths of right;
Counsel freely may exchange
Nor with fate and fortune fight.

CHORUS.
(Ant. 2)
Halt! Go no further than that rocky floor.

OEDIPUS.
Stay where I now am?

CHORUS.
                    Yes, advance no more.

OEDIPUS.
May I sit down?

CHORUS.
               Move sideways towards the ledge,
And sit thee crouching on the scarped edge.

ANTIGONE.
This is my office, father, O incline—

OEDIPUS.
Ah me! ah me!

ANTIGONE.
Thy steps to my steps, lean thine aged frame on mine.

OEDIPUS.
Woe on my fate unblest!

CHORUS.
Wanderer, now thou art at rest,
Tell me of thy birth and home,
From what far country art thou come,
Led on thy weary way, declare!

OEDIPUS.
Strangers, I have no country. O forbear—

CHORUS.
What is it, old man, that thou wouldst conceal?

OEDIPUS.
Forbear, nor urge me further to reveal—

CHORUS.
Why this reluctance?

OEDIPUS.
                    Dread my lineage.

CHORUS.
                                        Say!

OEDIPUS.
What must I answer, child, ah welladay!

CHORUS.
Say of what stock thou comest, what man’s son—

OEDIPUS.
Ah me, my daughter, now we are undone!

ANTIGONE.
Speak, for thou standest on the slippery verge.

OEDIPUS.
I will; no plea for silence can I urge.

CHORUS.
Will neither speak? Come, Sir, why dally thus!

OEDIPUS.
Know’st one of Laius’—

CHORUS.
                         Ha? Who!

OEDIPUS.
Seed of Labdacus—

CHORUS.
                    Oh Zeus!

OEDIPUS.
The hapless Oedipus.

CHORUS.
                    Art he?

OEDIPUS.
Whate’er I utter, have no fear of me.

CHORUS.
Begone!

OEDIPUS.
          O wretched me!

CHORUS.
                         Begone!

OEDIPUS.
O daughter, what will hap anon?

CHORUS.
Forth from our borders speed ye both!

OEDIPUS.
How keep you then your troth?

CHORUS.
Heaven’s justice never smites
Him who ill with ill requites.
But if guile with guile contend,
Bane, not blessing, is the end.
Arise, begone and take thee hence straightway,
Lest on our land a heavier curse thou lay.

ANTIGONE.
     O sirs! ye suffered not my father blind,
     Albeit gracious and to ruth inclined,
     Knowing the deeds he wrought, not innocent,
          But with no ill intent;
          Yet heed a maiden’s moan
          Who pleads for him alone;
          My eyes, not reft of sight,
Plead with you as a daughter’s might
You are our providence,
O make us not go hence!
O with a gracious nod
Grant us the nigh despaired-of boon we crave?
          Hear us, O hear,
But all that ye hold dear,
Wife, children, homestead, hearth and God!
Where will you find one, search ye ne’er so well.
Who ’scapes perdition if a god impel!

CHORUS.
Surely we pity thee and him alike
Daughter of Oedipus, for your distress;
But as we reverence the decrees of Heaven
We cannot say aught other than we said.

OEDIPUS.
O what avails renown or fair repute?
Are they not vanity? For, look you, now
Athens is held of States the most devout,
Athens alone gives hospitality
And shelters the vexed stranger, so men say.
Have I found so? I whom ye dislodged
First from my seat of rock and now would drive
Forth from your land, dreading my name alone;
For me you surely dread not, nor my deeds,
Deeds of a man more sinned against than sinning,
As I might well convince you, were it meet
To tell my mother’s story and my sire’s,
The cause of this your fear. Yet am I then
A villain born because in self-defense,
Striken, I struck the striker back again?
E’en had I known, no villainy ’twould prove:
But all unwitting whither I went, I went—
To ruin; my destroyers knew it well,
Wherefore, I pray you, sirs, in Heaven’s name,
Even as ye bade me quit my seat, defend me.
O pay not a lip service to the gods
And wrong them of their dues. Bethink ye well,
The eye of Heaven beholds the just of men,
And the unjust, nor ever in this world
Has one sole godless sinner found escape.
Stand then on Heaven’s side and never blot
Athens’ fair scutcheon by abetting wrong.
I came to you a suppliant, and you pledged
Your honor; O preserve me to the end,
O let not this marred visage do me wrong!
A holy and god-fearing man is here
Whose coming purports comfort for your folk.
And when your chief arrives, whoe’er he be,
Then shall ye have my story and know all.
Meanwhile I pray you do me no despite.

CHORUS.
The plea thou urgest, needs must give us pause,
Set forth in weighty argument, but we
Must leave the issue with the ruling powers.

OEDIPUS.
Where is he, strangers, he who sways the realm?

CHORUS.
In his ancestral seat; a messenger,
The same who sent us here, is gone for him.

OEDIPUS.
And think you he will have such care or thought
For the blind stranger as to come himself?

CHORUS.
Aye, that he will, when once he learns thy name.

OEDIPUS.
But who will bear him word!

CHORUS.
                              The way is long,
And many travelers pass to speed the news.
Be sure he’ll hear and hasten, never fear;
So wide and far thy name is noised abroad,
That, were he ne’er so spent and loth to move,
He would bestir him when he hears of thee.

OEDIPUS.
Well, may he come with blessing to his State
And me! Who serves his neighbor serves himself. 5

ANTIGONE.
Zeus! What is this? What can I say or think?

OEDIPUS.
What now, Antigone?

ANTIGONE.
                    I see a woman
Riding upon a colt of Aetna’s breed;
She wears for headgear a Thessalian hat
To shade her from the sun. Who can it be?
She or a stranger? Do I wake or dream?
’Tis she; ’tis not—I cannot tell, alack;
It is no other! Now her bright’ning glance
Greets me with recognition, yes, ’tis she,
Herself, Ismene!

OEDIPUS.
                    Ha! what say ye, child?

ANTIGONE.
That I behold thy daughter and my sister,
And thou wilt know her straightway by her voice.
[Enter ISMENE]

ISMENE.
Father and sister, names to me most sweet,
How hardly have I found you, hardly now
When found at last can see you through my tears!

OEDIPUS.
Art come, my child?

ISMENE.
                    O father, sad thy plight!

OEDIPUS.
Child, thou art here?

ISMENE.
                    Yes, ’twas a weary way.

OEDIPUS.
Touch me, my child.

ISMENE.
                    I give a hand to both.

OEDIPUS.
O children—sisters!

ISMENE.
                    O disastrous plight!

OEDIPUS.
Her plight and mine?

ISMENE.
                    Aye, and my own no less.

OEDIPUS.
What brought thee, daughter?

ISMENE.
                              Father, care for thee.

OEDIPUS.
A daughter’s yearning?

ISMENE.
                         Yes, and I had news
I would myself deliver, so I came
With the one thrall who yet is true to me.

OEDIPUS.
Thy valiant brothers, where are they at need?

ISMENE.
They are—enough, ’tis now their darkest hour.

OEDIPUS.
Out on the twain! The thoughts and actions all
Are framed and modeled on Egyptian ways.
For there the men sit at the loom indoors
While the wives slave abroad for daily bread.
So you, my children—those whom I behooved
To bear the burden, stay at home like girls,
While in their stead my daughters moil and drudge,
Lightening their father’s misery. The one
Since first she grew from girlish feebleness
To womanhood has been the old man’s guide
And shared my weary wandering, roaming oft
Hungry and footsore through wild forest ways,
In drenching rains and under scorching suns,
Careless herself of home and ease, if so
Her sire might have her tender ministry.
And thou, my child, whilom thou wentest forth,
Eluding the Cadmeians’ vigilance,
To bring thy father all the oracles
Concerning Oedipus, and didst make thyself
My faithful lieger, when they banished me.
And now what mission summons thee from home,
What news, Ismene, hast thou for thy father?
This much I know, thou com’st not empty-handed,
Without a warning of some new alarm.

ISMENE.
The toil and trouble, father, that I bore
To find thy lodging-place and how thou faredst,
I spare thee; surely ’twere a double pain
To suffer, first in act and then in telling;
’Tis the misfortune of thine ill-starred sons
I come to tell thee. At the first they willed
To leave the throne to Creon, minded well
Thus to remove the inveterate curse of old,
A canker that infected all thy race.
But now some god and an infatuate soul
Have stirred betwixt them a mad rivalry
To grasp at sovereignty and kingly power.
Today the hot-branded youth, the younger born,
Is keeping Polyneices from the throne,
His elder, and has thrust him from the land.
The banished brother (so all Thebes reports)
Fled to the vale of Argos, and by help
Of new alliance there and friends in arms,
Swears he will stablish Argos straight as lord
Of the Cadmeian land, or, if he fail,
Exalt the victor to the stars of heaven.
This is no empty tale, but deadly truth,
My father; and how long thy agony,
Ere the gods pity thee, I cannot tell.

OEDIPUS.
Hast thou indeed then entertained a hope
The gods at last will turn and rescue me?

ISMENE.
Yea, so I read these latest oracles.

OEDIPUS.
What oracles? What hath been uttered, child?

ISMENE.
Thy country (so it runs) shall yearn in time
To have thee for their weal alive or dead.

OEDIPUS.
And who could gain by such a one as I?

ISMENE.
On thee, ’tis said, their sovereignty depends.

OEDIPUS.
So, when I cease to be, my worth begins.

ISMENE.
The gods, who once abased, uplift thee now.

OEDIPUS.
Poor help to raise an old man fallen in youth.

ISMENE.
Howe’er that be, ’tis for this cause alone
That Creon comes to thee—and comes anon.

OEDIPUS.
With what intent, my daughter? Tell me plainly.

ISMENE.
To plant thee near the Theban land, and so
Keep thee within their grasp, yet now allow
Thy foot to pass beyond their boundaries.

OEDIPUS.
What gain they, if I lay outside?

OEDIPUS.
                                   Thy tomb,
If disappointed, brings on them a curse.

OEDIPUS.
It needs no god to tell what’s plain to sense.

ISMENE.
Therefore they fain would have thee close at hand,
Not where thou wouldst be master of thyself.

OEDIPUS.
Mean they to shroud my bones in Theban dust?

ISMENE.
Nay, father, guilt of kinsman’s blood forbids.

OEDIPUS.
Then never shall they be my masters, never!

ISMENE.
Thebes, thou shalt rue this bitterly some day!

OEDIPUS.
When what conjunction comes to pass, my child?

ISMENE.
Thy angry wraith, when at thy tomb they stand. 6

OEDIPUS.
And who hath told thee what thou tell’st me, child?

ISMENE.
Envoys who visited the Delphic hearth.

OEDIPUS.
Hath Phoebus spoken thus concerning me?

ISMENE.
So say the envoys who returned to Thebes.

OEDIPUS.
And can a son of mine have heard of this?

ISMENE.
Yea, both alike, and know its import well.

OEDIPUS.
They knew it, yet the ignoble greed of rule
Outweighed all longing for their sire’s return.

ISMENE.
Grievous thy words, yet I must own them true.

OEDIPUS.
Then may the gods ne’er quench their fatal feud,
And mine be the arbitrament of the fight,
For which they now are arming, spear to spear;
That neither he who holds the scepter now
May keep this throne, nor he who fled the realm
Return again. _They_ never raised a hand,
When I their sire was thrust from hearth and home,
When I was banned and banished, what recked they?
Say you ’twas done at my desire, a grace
Which the state, yielding to my wish, allowed?
Not so; for, mark you, on that very day
When in the tempest of my soul I craved
Death, even death by stoning, none appeared
To further that wild longing, but anon,
When time had numbed my anguish and I felt
My wrath had all outrun those errors past,
Then, then it was the city went about
By force to oust me, respited for years;
And then my sons, who should as sons have helped,
Did nothing: and, one little word from them
Was all I needed, and they spoke no word,
But let me wander on for evermore,
A banished man, a beggar. These two maids
Their sisters, girls, gave all their sex could give,
Food and safe harborage and filial care;
While their two brethren sacrificed their sire
For lust of power and sceptred sovereignty.
No! me they ne’er shall win for an ally,
Nor will this Theban kingship bring them gain;
That know I from this maiden’s oracles,
And those old prophecies concerning me,
Which Phoebus now at length has brought to pass.
Come Creon then, come all the mightiest
In Thebes to seek me; for if ye my friends,
Championed by those dread Powers indigenous,
Espouse my cause; then for the State ye gain
A great deliverer, for my foemen bane.

CHORUS.
Our pity, Oedipus, thou needs must move,
Thou and these maidens; and the stronger plea
Thou urgest, as the savior of our land,
Disposes me to counsel for thy weal.

OEDIPUS.
Aid me, kind sirs; I will do all you bid.

CHORUS.
First make atonement to the deities,
Whose grove by trespass thou didst first profane.

OEDIPUS.
After what manner, stranger? Teach me, pray.

CHORUS.
Make a libation first of water fetched
With undefiled hands from living spring.

OEDIPUS.
And after I have gotten this pure draught?

CHORUS.
Bowls thou wilt find, the carver’s handiwork;
Crown thou the rims and both the handles crown—

OEDIPUS.
With olive shoots or blocks of wool, or how?

CHORUS.
With wool from fleece of yearling freshly shorn.

OEDIPUS.
What next? how must I end the ritual?

CHORUS.
Pour thy libation, turning to the dawn.

OEDIPUS.
Pouring it from the urns whereof ye spake?

CHORUS.
Yea, in three streams; and be the last bowl drained
To the last drop.

OEDIPUS.
                    And wherewith shall I fill it,
Ere in its place I set it? This too tell.

CHORUS.
With water and with honey; add no wine.

OEDIPUS.
And when the embowered earth hath drunk thereof?

CHORUS.
Then lay upon it thrice nine olive sprays
With both thy hands, and offer up this prayer.

OEDIPUS.
I fain would hear it; that imports the most.

CHORUS.
That, as we call them Gracious, they would deign
To grant the suppliant their saving grace.
So pray thyself or whoso pray for thee,
In whispered accents, not with lifted voice;
Then go and look back. Do as I bid,
And I shall then be bold to stand thy friend;
Else, stranger, I should have my fears for thee.

OEDIPUS.
Hear ye, my daughters, what these strangers say?

ANTIGONE.
We listened, and attend thy bidding, father.

OEDIPUS.
I cannot go, disabled as I am
Doubly, by lack of strength and lack of sight;
But one of you may do it in my stead;
For one, I trow, may pay the sacrifice
Of thousands, if his heart be leal and true.
So to your work with speed, but leave me not
Untended; for this frame is all too week
To move without the help of guiding hand.

ISMENE.
Then I will go perform these rites, but where
To find the spot, this have I yet to learn.

CHORUS.
Beyond this grove; if thou hast need of aught,
The guardian of the close will lend his aid.

ISMENE.
I go, and thou, Antigone, meanwhile
Must guard our father. In a parent’s cause
Toil, if there be toil, is of no account.
[Exit ISMENE]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Ill it is, stranger, to awake
Pain that long since has ceased to ache,
And yet I fain would hear—

OEDIPUS.
What thing?

CHORUS.
Thy tale of cruel suffering
For which no cure was found,
The fate that held thee bound.

OEDIPUS.
O bid me not (as guest I claim
This grace) expose my shame.

CHORUS.
The tale is bruited far and near,
And echoes still from ear to ear.
The truth, I fain would hear.

OEDIPUS.
Ah me!

CHORUS.
     I prithee yield.

OEDIPUS.
                    Ah me!

CHORUS.
Grant my request, I granted all to thee.

OEDIPUS.
(Ant. 1)
Know then I suffered ills most vile, but none
(So help me Heaven!) from acts in malice done.

CHORUS.
Say how.

OEDIPUS.
          The State around
An all unwitting bridegroom bound
An impious marriage chain;
          That was my bane.

CHORUS.
Didst thou in sooth then share
A bed incestuous with her that bare—

OEDIPUS.
It stabs me like a sword,
That two-edged word,
O stranger, but these maids—my own—

CHORUS.
Say on.

OEDIPUS.
Two daughters, curses twain.

CHORUS.
Oh God!

OEDIPUS.
Sprang from the wife and mother’s travail-pain.

CHORUS.
(Str. 2)
What, then thy offspring are at once—

OEDIPUS.
                                        Too true.
Their father’s very sister’s too.

CHORUS.
Oh horror!

OEDIPUS.
          Horrors from the boundless deep
Back on my soul in refluent surges sweep.

CHORUS.
Thou hast endured—

OEDIPUS.
                    Intolerable woe.

CHORUS.
And sinned—

OEDIPUS.
               I sinned not.

CHORUS.
                              How so?

OEDIPUS.
I served the State; would I had never won
That graceless grace by which I was undone.

CHORUS.
(Ant. 2)
And next, unhappy man, thou hast shed blood?

OEDIPUS.
Must ye hear more?

CHORUS.
                    A father’s?

OEDIPUS.
                                   Flood on flood
Whelms me; that word’s a second mortal blow.

CHORUS.
Murderer!

OEDIPUS.
          Yes, a murderer, but know—

CHORUS.
What canst thou plead?

OEDIPUS.
                         A plea of justice.

CHORUS.
                                             How?

OEDIPUS.
I slew who else would me have slain;
I slew without intent,
A wretch, but innocent
In the law’s eye, I stand, without a stain.

CHORUS.
Behold our sovereign, Theseus, Aegeus’ son,
Comes at thy summons to perform his part.
[Enter THESEUS]

THESEUS.
Oft had I heard of thee in times gone by—
The bloody mutilation of thine eyes—
And therefore know thee, son of Laius.
All that I lately gathered on the way
Made my conjecture doubly sure; and now
Thy garb and that marred visage prove to me
That thou art he. So pitying thine estate,
Most ill-starred Oedipus, I fain would know
What is the suit ye urge on me and Athens,
Thou and the helpless maiden at thy side.
Declare it; dire indeed must be the tale
Whereat _I_ should recoil. I too was reared,
Like thee, in exile, and in foreign lands
Wrestled with many perils, no man more.
Wherefore no alien in adversity
Shall seek in vain my succor, nor shalt thou;
I know myself a mortal, and my share
In what the morrow brings no more than thine.

OEDIPUS.
Theseus, thy words so apt, so generous
So comfortable, need no long reply
Both who I am and of what lineage sprung,
And from what land I came, thou hast declared.
So without prologue I may utter now
My brief petition, and the tale is told.

THESEUS.
Say on, and tell me what I fain would learn.

OEDIPUS.
I come to offer thee this woe-worn frame,
A gift not fair to look on; yet its worth
More precious far than any outward show.

THESEUS.
What profit dost thou proffer to have brought?

OEDIPUS.
Hereafter thou shalt learn, not yet, methinks.

THESEUS.
When may we hope to reap the benefit?

OEDIPUS.
When I am dead and thou hast buried me.

THESEUS.
Thou cravest life’s last service; all before—
Is it forgotten or of no account?

OEDIPUS.
Yea, the last boon is warrant for the rest.

THESEUS.
The grace thou cravest then is small indeed.

OEDIPUS.
Nay, weigh it well; the issue is not slight.

THESEUS.
Thou meanest that betwixt thy sons and me?

OEDIPUS.
Prince, they would fain convey me back to Thebes.

THESEUS.
If there be no compulsion, then methinks
To rest in banishment befits not thee.

OEDIPUS.
Nay, when _I_ wished it _they_ would not consent.

THESEUS.
For shame! such temper misbecomes the faller.

OEDIPUS.
Chide if thou wilt, but first attend my plea.

THESEUS.
Say on, I wait full knowledge ere I judge.

OEDIPUS.
O Theseus, I have suffered wrongs on wrongs.

THESEUS.
Wouldst tell the old misfortune of thy race?

OEDIPUS.
No, that has grown a byword throughout Greece.

THESEUS.
What then can be this more than mortal grief?

OEDIPUS.
My case stands thus; by my own flesh and blood
I was expelled my country, and can ne’er
Thither return again, a parricide.

THESEUS.
Why fetch thee home if thou must needs obey.

THESEUS.
What are they threatened by the oracle?

OEDIPUS.
Destruction that awaits them in this land.

THESEUS.
What can beget ill blood ’twixt them and me?

OEDIPUS.
Dear son of Aegeus, to the gods alone
Is given immunity from eld and death;
But nothing else escapes all-ruinous time.
Earth’s might decays, the might of men decays,
Honor grows cold, dishonor flourishes,
There is no constancy ’twixt friend and friend,
Or city and city; be it soon or late,
Sweet turns to bitter, hate once more to love.
If now ’tis sunshine betwixt Thebes and thee
And not a cloud, Time in his endless course
Gives birth to endless days and nights, wherein
The merest nothing shall suffice to cut
With serried spears your bonds of amity.
Then shall my slumbering and buried corpse
In its cold grave drink their warm life-blood up,
If Zeus be Zeus and Phoebus still speak true.
No more: ’tis ill to tear aside the veil
Of mysteries; let me cease as I began:
Enough if thou wilt keep thy plighted troth,
Then shall thou ne’er complain that Oedipus
Proved an unprofitable and thankless guest,
Except the gods themselves shall play me false.

CHORUS.
The man, my lord, has from the very first
Declared his power to offer to our land
These and like benefits.

THESEUS.
                         Who could reject
The proffered amity of such a friend?
First, he can claim the hospitality
To which by mutual contract we stand pledged:
Next, coming here, a suppliant to the gods,
He pays full tribute to the State and me;
His favors therefore never will I spurn,
But grant him the full rights of citizen;
And, if it suits the stranger here to bide,
I place him in your charge, or if he please
Rather to come with me—choose, Oedipus,
Which of the two thou wilt. Thy choice is mine.

OEDIPUS.
Zeus, may the blessing fall on men like these!

THESEUS.
What dost thou then decide—to come with me?

OEDIPUS.
Yea, were it lawful—but ’tis rather here—

THESEUS.
What wouldst thou here? I shall not thwart thy wish.

OEDIPUS.
Here shall I vanquish those who cast me forth.

THESEUS.
Then were thy presence here a boon indeed.

OEDIPUS.
Such shall it prove, if thou fulfill’st thy pledge.

THESEUS.
Fear not for me; I shall not play thee false.

OEDIPUS.
No need to back thy promise with an oath.

THESEUS.
An oath would be no surer than my word.

OEDIPUS.
How wilt thou act then?

THESEUS.
                         What is it thou fear’st?

OEDIPUS.
My foes will come—

THESEUS.
                    Our friends will look to that.

OEDIPUS.
But if thou leave me?

THESEUS.
                    Teach me not my duty.

OEDIPUS.
’Tis fear constrains me.

THESEUS.
                         _My_ soul knows no fear!

OEDIPUS.
Thou knowest not what threats—

THESEUS.
                              I know that none
Shall hale thee hence in my despite. Such threats
Vented in anger oft, are blusterers,
An idle breath, forgot when sense returns.
And for thy foemen, though their words were brave,
Boasting to bring thee back, they are like to find
The seas between us wide and hard to sail.
Such my firm purpose, but in any case
Take heart, since Phoebus sent thee here. My name,
Though I be distant, warrants thee from harm.

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
     Thou hast come to a steed-famed land for rest,
          O stranger worn with toil,
     To a land of all lands the goodliest
          Colonus’ glistening soil.
     ’Tis the haunt of the clear-voiced nightingale,
          Who hid in her bower, among
     The wine-dark ivy that wreathes the vale,
          Trilleth her ceaseless song;
     And she loves, where the clustering berries nod
          O’er a sunless, windless glade,
     The spot by no mortal footstep trod,
     The pleasance kept for the Bacchic god,
     Where he holds each night his revels wild
     With the nymphs who fostered the lusty child.

(Ant. 1)
     And fed each morn by the pearly dew
          The starred narcissi shine,
     And a wreath with the crocus’ golden hue
          For the Mother and Daughter twine.
     And never the sleepless fountains cease
          That feed Cephisus’ stream,
     But they swell earth’s bosom with quick increase,
          And their wave hath a crystal gleam.
     And the Muses’ quire will never disdain
     To visit this heaven-favored plain,
     Nor the Cyprian queen of the golden rein.

(Str. 2)
     And here there grows, unpruned, untamed,
          Terror to foemen’s spear,
     A tree in Asian soil unnamed,
     By Pelops’ Dorian isle unclaimed,
          Self-nurtured year by year;
     ’Tis the grey-leaved olive that feeds our boys;
     Nor youth nor withering age destroys
     The plant that the Olive Planter tends
     And the Grey-eyed Goddess herself defends.

(Ant. 2)
     Yet another gift, of all gifts the most
     Prized by our fatherland, we boast—
     The might of the horse, the might of the sea;
     Our fame, Poseidon, we owe to thee,
     Son of Kronos, our king divine,
     Who in these highways first didst fit
     For the mouth of horses the iron bit;
     Thou too hast taught us to fashion meet
     For the arm of the rower the oar-blade fleet,
     Swift as the Nereids’ hundred feet
     As they dance along the brine.

ANTIGONE.
Oh land extolled above all lands, ’tis now
For thee to make these glorious titles good.

OEDIPUS.
Why this appeal, my daughter?

ANTIGONE.
                              Father, lo!
Creon approaches with his company.

OEDIPUS.
Fear not, it shall be so; if we are old,
This country’s vigor has no touch of age.
[Enter CREON with attendants]

CREON.
Burghers, my noble friends, ye take alarm
At my approach (I read it in your eyes),
Fear nothing and refrain from angry words.
I come with no ill purpose; I am old,
And know the city whither I am come,
Without a peer amongst the powers of Greece.
It was by reason of my years that I
Was chosen to persuade your guest and bring
Him back to Thebes; not the delegate
Of one man, but commissioned by the State,
Since of all Thebans I have most bewailed,
Being his kinsman, his most grievous woes.
O listen to me, luckless Oedipus,
Come home! The whole Cadmeian people claim
With right to have thee back, I most of all,
For most of all (else were I vile indeed)
I mourn for thy misfortunes, seeing thee
An aged outcast, wandering on and on,
A beggar with one handmaid for thy stay.
Ah! who had e’er imagined she could fall
To such a depth of misery as this,
To tend in penury thy stricken frame,
A virgin ripe for wedlock, but unwed,
A prey for any wanton ravisher?
Seems it not cruel this reproach I cast
On thee and on myself and all the race?
Aye, but an open shame cannot be hid.
Hide it, O hide it, Oedipus, thou canst.
O, by our fathers’ gods, consent I pray;
Come back to Thebes, come to thy father’s home,
Bid Athens, as is meet, a fond farewell;
Thebes thy old foster-mother claims thee first.

OEDIPUS.
O front of brass, thy subtle tongue would twist
To thy advantage every plea of right
Why try thy arts on me, why spread again
Toils where ’twould gall me sorest to be snared?
In old days when by self-wrought woes distraught,
I yearned for exile as a glad release,
Thy will refused the favor then I craved.
But when my frenzied grief had spent its force,
And I was fain to taste the sweets of home,
Then thou wouldst thrust me from my country, then
These ties of kindred were by thee ignored;
And now again when thou behold’st this State
And all its kindly people welcome me,
Thou seek’st to part us, wrapping in soft words
Hard thoughts. And yet what pleasure canst thou find
In forcing friendship on unwilling foes?
Suppose a man refused to grant some boon
When you importuned him, and afterwards
When you had got your heart’s desire, consented,
Granting a grace from which all grace had fled,
Would not such favor seem an empty boon?
Yet such the boon thou profferest now to me,
Fair in appearance, but when tested false.
Yea, I will proved thee false, that these may hear;
Thou art come to take me, not to take me home,
But plant me on thy borders, that thy State
May so escape annoyance from this land.
_That_ thou shalt never gain, but _this_ instead—
My ghost to haunt thy country without end;
And for my sons, this heritage—no more—
Just room to die in. Have not I more skill
Than thou to draw the horoscope of Thebes?
Are not my teachers surer guides than thine—
Great Phoebus and the sire of Phoebus, Zeus?
Thou art a messenger suborned, thy tongue
Is sharper than a sword’s edge, yet thy speech
Will bring thee more defeats than victories.
Howbeit, I know I waste my words—begone,
And leave me here; whate’er may be my lot,
He lives not ill who lives withal content.

CREON.
Which loses in this parley, I o’erthrown
By thee, or thou who overthrow’st thyself?

OEDIPUS.
I shall be well contented if thy suit
Fails with these strangers, as it has with me.

CREON.
Unhappy man, will years ne’er make thee wise?
Must thou live on to cast a slur on age?

OEDIPUS.
Thou hast a glib tongue, but no honest man,
Methinks, can argue well on any side.

CREON.
’Tis one thing to speak much, another well.

OEDIPUS.
Thy words, forsooth, are few and all well aimed!

CREON.
Not for a man indeed with wits like thine.

OEDIPUS.
Depart! I bid thee in these burghers’ name,
And prowl no longer round me to blockade
My destined harbor.

CREON.
                    I protest to these,
Not thee, and for thine answer to thy kin,
If e’er I take thee—

OEDIPUS.
                    Who against their will
Could take me?

CREON.
               Though untaken thou shalt smart.

OEDIPUS.
What power hast thou to execute this threat?

CREON.
One of thy daughters is already seized,
The other I will carry off anon.

OEDIPUS.
Woe, woe!

CREON.
          This is but prelude to thy woes.

OEDIPUS.
Hast thou my child?

CREON.
                    And soon shall have the other.

OEDIPUS.
Ho, friends! ye will not surely play me false?
Chase this ungodly villain from your land.

CHORUS.
Hence, stranger, hence avaunt! Thou doest wrong
In this, and wrong in all that thou hast done.

CREON (to his guards).
’Tis time by force to carry off the girl,
If she refuse of her free will to go.

ANTIGONE.
Ah, woe is me! where shall I fly, where find
Succor from gods or men?

CHORUS.
                         What would’st thou, stranger?

CREON.
I meddle not with him, but her who is mine.

OEDIPUS.
O princes of the land!

CHORUS.
                         Sir, thou dost wrong.

CREON.
Nay, right.

CHORUS.
               How right?

CREON.
                         I take but what is mine.

OEDIPUS.
Help, Athens!

CHORUS.
What means this, sirrah? quick unhand her, or
We’ll fight it out.

CREON.
                    Back!

CHORUS.
                         Not till thou forbear.

CREON.
’Tis war with Thebes if I am touched or harmed.

OEDIPUS.
Did I not warn thee?

CHORUS.
                    Quick, unhand the maid!

CREON.
Command your minions; I am not your slave.

CHORUS.
Desist, I bid thee.

CREON (to the guard)
                    And O bid thee march!

CHORUS.
          To the rescue, one and all!
          Rally, neighbors to my call!
          See, the foe is at the gate!
          Rally to defend the State.

ANTIGONE.
Ah, woe is me, they drag me hence, O friends.

OEDIPUS.
Where art thou, daughter?

ANTIGONE.
                         Haled along by force.

OEDIPUS.
Thy hands, my child!

ANTIGONE.
                    They will not let me, father.

CREON.
Away with her!

OEDIPUS.
               Ah, woe is me, ah woe!

CREON.
So those two crutches shall no longer serve thee
For further roaming. Since it pleaseth thee
To triumph o’er thy country and thy friends
Who mandate, though a prince, I here discharge,
Enjoy thy triumph; soon or late thou’lt find
Thou art an enemy to thyself, both now
And in time past, when in despite of friends
Thou gav’st the rein to passion, still thy bane.

CHORUS.
Hold there, sir stranger!

CREON.
                         Hands off, have a care.

CHORUS.
Restore the maidens, else thou goest not.

CREON.
Then Thebes will take a dearer surety soon;
I will lay hands on more than these two maids.

CHORUS.
What canst thou further?

CREON.
                         Carry off this man.

CHORUS.
Brave words!

CREON.
               And deeds forthwith shall make them good.

CHORUS.
Unless perchance our sovereign intervene.

OEDIPUS.
O shameless voice! Would’st lay an hand on me?

CREON.
Silence, I bid thee!

OEDIPUS.
                    Goddesses, allow
Thy suppliant to utter yet one curse!
Wretch, now my eyes are gone thou hast torn away
The helpless maiden who was eyes to me;
For these to thee and all thy cursed race
May the great Sun, whose eye is everywhere,
Grant length of days and old age like to mine.

CREON.
Listen, O men of Athens, mark ye this?

OEDIPUS.
They mark us both and understand that I
Wronged by the deeds defend myself with words.

CREON.
Nothing shall curb my will; though I be old
And single-handed, I will have this man.

OEDIPUS.
O woe is me!

CHORUS.
Thou art a bold man, stranger, if thou think’st
To execute thy purpose.

CREON.
                         So I do.

CHORUS.
Then shall I deem this State no more a State.

CREON.
With a just quarrel weakness conquers might.

OEDIPUS.
Ye hear his words?

CHORUS.
                    Aye words, but not yet deeds,
Zeus knoweth!

CREON.
               Zeus may haply know, not thou.

CHORUS.
Insolence!

CREON.
          Insolence that thou must bear.

CHORUS.
          Haste ye princes, sound the alarm!
          Men of Athens, arm ye, arm!
          Quickly to the rescue come
          Ere the robbers get them home.
[Enter THESEUS]

THESEUS.
Why this outcry? What is forward? wherefore was I called away
From the altar of Poseidon, lord of your Colonus? Say!
On what errand have I hurried hither without stop or stay.

OEDIPUS.
Dear friend—those accents tell me who thou art—
Yon man but now hath done me a foul wrong.

THESEUS.
What is this wrong and who hath wrought it? Speak.

OEDIPUS.
Creon who stands before thee. He it is
Hath robbed me of my all, my daughters twain.

THESEUS.
What means this?

OEDIPUS.
               Thou hast heard my tale of wrongs.

THESEUS.
Ho! hasten to the altars, one of you.
Command my liegemen leave the sacrifice
And hurry, foot and horse, with rein unchecked,
To where the paths that packmen use diverge,
Lest the two maidens slip away, and I
Become a mockery to this my guest,
As one despoiled by force. Quick, as I bid.
As for this stranger, had I let my rage,
Justly provoked, have play, he had not ’scaped
Scathless and uncorrected at my hands.
But now the laws to which himself appealed,
These and none others shall adjudicate.
Thou shalt not quit this land, till thou hast fetched
The maidens and produced them in my sight.
Thou hast offended both against myself
And thine own race and country. Having come
Unto a State that champions right and asks
For every action warranty of law,
Thou hast set aside the custom of the land,
And like some freebooter art carrying off
What plunder pleases thee, as if forsooth
Thou thoughtest this a city without men,
Or manned by slaves, and me a thing of naught.
Yet not from Thebes this villainy was learnt;
Thebes is not wont to breed unrighteous sons,
Nor would she praise thee, if she learnt that thou
Wert robbing me—aye and the gods to boot,
Haling by force their suppliants, poor maids.
Were I on Theban soil, to prosecute
The justest claim imaginable, I
Would never wrest by violence my own
Without sanction of your State or King;
I should behave as fits an outlander
Living amongst a foreign folk, but thou
Shamest a city that deserves it not,
Even thine own, and plentitude of years
Have made of thee an old man and a fool.
Therefore again I charge thee as before,
See that the maidens are restored at once,
Unless thou would’st continue here by force
And not by choice a sojourner; so much
I tell thee home and what I say, I mean.

CHORUS.
Thy case is perilous; though by birth and race
Thou should’st be just, thou plainly doest wrong.

CREON.
Not deeming this city void of men
Or counsel, son of Aegeus, as thou say’st
I did what I have done; rather I thought
Your people were not like to set such store
by kin of mine and keep them ’gainst my will.
Nor would they harbor, so I stood assured,
A godless parricide, a reprobate
Convicted of incestuous marriage ties.
For on her native hill of Ares here
(I knew your far-famed Areopagus)
Sits Justice, and permits not vagrant folk
To stay within your borders. In that faith
I hunted down my quarry; and e’en then
I had refrained but for the curses dire
Wherewith he banned my kinsfolk and myself:
Such wrong, methought, had warrant for my act.
Anger has no old age but only death;
The dead alone can feel no touch of spite.
So thou must work thy will; my cause is just
But weak without allies; yet will I try,
Old as I am, to answer deeds with deeds.

OEDIPUS.
O shameless railer, think’st thou this abuse
Defames my grey hairs rather than thine own?
Murder and incest, deeds of horror, all
Thou blurtest forth against me, all I have borne,
No willing sinner; so it pleased the gods
Wrath haply with my sinful race of old,
Since thou could’st find no sin in me myself
For which in retribution I was doomed
To trespass thus against myself and mine.
Answer me now, if by some oracle
My sire was destined to a bloody end
By a son’s hand, can this reflect on me,
Me then unborn, begotten by no sire,
Conceived in no mother’s womb? And if
When born to misery, as born I was,
I met my sire, not knowing whom I met
or what I did, and slew him, how canst thou
With justice blame the all-unconscious hand?
And for my mother, wretch, art not ashamed,
Seeing she was thy sister, to extort
From me the story of her marriage, such
A marriage as I straightway will proclaim.
For I will speak; thy lewd and impious speech
Has broken all the bonds of reticence.
She was, ah woe is me! she was my mother;
I knew it not, nor she; and she my mother
Bare children to the son whom she had borne,
A birth of shame. But this at least I know
Wittingly thou aspersest her and me;
But I unwitting wed, unwilling speak.
Nay neither in this marriage or this deed
Which thou art ever casting in my teeth—
A murdered sire—shall I be held to blame.
Come, answer me one question, if thou canst:
If one should presently attempt thy life,
Would’st thou, O man of justice, first inquire
If the assassin was perchance thy sire,
Or turn upon him? As thou lov’st thy life,
On thy aggressor thou would’st turn, no stay
Debating, if the law would bear thee out.
Such was my case, and such the pass whereto
The gods reduced me; and methinks my sire,
Could he come back to life, would not dissent.
Yet thou, for just thou art not, but a man
Who sticks at nothing, if it serve his plea,
Reproachest me with this before these men.
It serves thy turn to laud great Theseus’ name,
And Athens as a wisely governed State;
Yet in thy flatteries one thing is to seek:
If any land knows how to pay the gods
Their proper rites, ’tis Athens most of all.
This is the land whence thou wast fain to steal
Their aged suppliant and hast carried off
My daughters. Therefore to yon goddesses,
I turn, adjure them and invoke their aid
To champion my cause, that thou mayest learn
What is the breed of men who guard this State.

CHORUS.
An honest man, my liege, one sore bestead
By fortune, and so worthy our support.

THESEUS.
Enough of words; the captors speed amain,
While we the victims stand debating here.

CREON.
What would’st thou? What can I, a feeble man?

THESEUS.
Show us the trail, and I’ll attend thee too,
That, if thou hast the maidens hereabouts,
Thou mayest thyself discover them to me;
But if thy guards outstrip us with their spoil,
We may draw rein; for others speed, from whom
They will not ’scape to thank the gods at home.
Lead on, I say, the captor’s caught, and fate
Hath ta’en the fowler in the toils he spread;
So soon are lost gains gotten by deceit.
And look not for allies; I know indeed
Such height of insolence was never reached
Without abettors or accomplices;
Thou hast some backer in thy bold essay,
But I will search this matter home and see
One man doth not prevail against the State.
Dost take my drift, or seem these words as vain
As seemed our warnings when the plot was hatched?

CREON.
Nothing thou sayest can I here dispute,
But once at home I too shall act my part.

THESEUS.
Threaten us and—begone! Thou, Oedipus,
Stay here assured that nothing save my death
Will stay my purpose to restore the maids.

OEDIPUS.
Heaven bless thee, Theseus, for thy nobleness
And all thy loving care in my behalf.
[Exeunt THESEUS and CREON]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
          O when the flying foe,
          Turning at last to bay,
          Soon will give blow for blow,
          Might I behold the fray;
          Hear the loud battle roar
          Swell, on the Pythian shore,
          Or by the torch-lit bay,
          Where the dread Queen and Maid
          Cherish the mystic rites,
          Rites they to none betray,
          Ere on his lips is laid
          Secrecy’s golden key
          By their own acolytes,
          Priestly Eumolpidae.

          There I might chance behold
          Theseus our captain bold
          Meet with the robber band,
          Ere they have fled the land,
          Rescue by might and main
          Maidens, the captives twain.

(Ant. 1)
          Haply on swiftest steed,
          Or in the flying car,
          Now they approach the glen,
          West of white Oea’s scaur.
          They will be vanquished:
          Dread are our warriors, dread
          Theseus our chieftain’s men.
          Flashes each bridle bright,
          Charges each gallant knight,
          All that our Queen adore,
          Pallas their patron, or
          Him whose wide floods enring
          Earth, the great Ocean-king
          Whom Rhea bore.

(Str. 2)
          Fight they or now prepare
          To fight? a vision rare
          Tells me that soon again
          I shall behold the twain
          Maidens so ill bestead,
          By their kin buffeted.
Today, today Zeus worketh some great thing
     This day shall victory bring.
O for the wings, the wings of a dove,
To be borne with the speed of the gale,
Up and still upwards to sail
     And gaze on the fray from the clouds above.
(Ant. 2)
All-seeing Zeus, O lord of heaven,
To our guardian host be given
Might triumphant to surprise
Flying foes and win their prize.
Hear us, Zeus, and hear us, child
Of Zeus, Athene undefiled,
Hear, Apollo, hunter, hear,
Huntress, sister of Apollo,
Who the dappled swift-foot deer
O’er the wooded glade dost follow;
Help with your two-fold power
Athens in danger’s hour!
O wayfarer, thou wilt not have to tax
The friends who watch for thee with false presage,
For lo, an escort with the maids draws near.
[Enter ANTIGONE and ISMENE with THESEUS]

OEDIPUS.
Where, where? what sayest thou?

ANTIGONE.
                              O father, father,
Would that some god might grant thee eyes to see
This best of men who brings us back again.

OEDIPUS.
My child! and are ye back indeed!

ANTIGONE.
                                   Yes, saved
By Theseus and his gallant followers.

OEDIPUS.
Come to your father’s arms, O let me feel
A child’s embrace I never hoped for more.

ANTIGONE.
Thou askest what is doubly sweet to give.

OEDIPUS.
Where are ye then?

ANTIGONE.
                    We come together both.

OEDIPUS.
My precious nurslings!

ANTIGONE.
                         Fathers aye were fond.

OEDIPUS.
Props of my age!

ANTIGONE.
               So sorrow sorrow props.

OEDIPUS.
I have my darlings, and if death should come,
Death were not wholly bitter with you near.
Cling to me, press me close on either side,
There rest ye from your dreary wayfaring.
Now tell me of your ventures, but in brief;
Brief speech suffices for young maids like you.

ANTIGONE.
Here is our savior; thou should’st hear the tale
From his own lips; so shall my part be brief.

OEDIPUS.
I pray thee do not wonder if the sight
Of children, given o’er for lost, has made
My converse somewhat long and tedious.
Full well I know the joy I have of them
Is due to thee, to thee and no man else;
Thou wast their sole deliverer, none else.
The gods deal with thee after my desire,
With thee and with this land! for fear of heaven
I found above all peoples most with you,
And righteousness and lips that cannot lie.
I speak in gratitude of what I know,
For all I have I owe to thee alone.
Give me thy hand, O Prince, that I may touch it,
And if thou wilt permit me, kiss thy cheek.
What say I? Can I wish that thou should’st touch
One fallen like me to utter wretchedness,
Corrupt and tainted with a thousand ills?
Oh no, I would not let thee if thou would’st.
They only who have known calamity
Can share it. Let me greet thee where thou art,
And still befriend me as thou hast till now.

THESEUS.
I marvel not if thou hast dallied long
In converse with thy children and preferred
Their speech to mine; I feel no jealousy,
I would be famous more by deeds than words.
Of this, old friend, thou hast had proof; my oath
I have fulfilled and brought thee back the maids
Alive and nothing harmed for all those threats.
And how the fight was won, ’twere waste of words
To boast—thy daughters here will tell thee all.
But of a matter that has lately chanced
On my way hitherward, I fain would have
Thy counsel—slight ’twould seem, yet worthy thought.
A wise man heeds all matters great or small.

OEDIPUS.
What is it, son of Aegeus? Let me hear.
Of what thou askest I myself know naught.

THESEUS.
’Tis said a man, no countryman of thine,
But of thy kin, hath taken sanctuary
Beside the altar of Poseidon, where
I was at sacrifice when called away.

OEDIPUS.
What is his country? what the suitor’s prayer?

THESEUS.
I know but one thing; he implores, I am told,
A word with thee—he will not trouble thee.

OEDIPUS.
What seeks he? If a suppliant, something grave.

THESEUS.
He only waits, they say, to speak with thee,
And then unharmed to go upon his way.

OEDIPUS.
I marvel who is this petitioner.

THESEUS.
Think if there be not any of thy kin
At Argos who might claim this boon of thee.

OEDIPUS.
Dear friend, forbear, I pray.

THESEUS.
                              What ails thee now?

OEDIPUS.
Ask it not of me.

THESEUS.
                    Ask not what? explain.

OEDIPUS.
Thy words have told me who the suppliant is.

THESEUS.
Who can he be that I should frown on him?

OEDIPUS.
My son, O king, my hateful son, whose words
Of all men’s most would jar upon my ears.

THESEUS.
Thou sure mightest listen. If his suit offend,
No need to grant it. Why so loth to hear him?

OEDIPUS.
That voice, O king, grates on a father’s ears;
I have come to loathe it. Force me not to yield.

THESEUS.
But he hath found asylum. O beware,
And fail not in due reverence to the god.

ANTIGONE.
O heed me, father, though I am young in years.
Let the prince have his will and pay withal
What in his eyes is service to the god;
For our sake also let our brother come.
If what he urges tend not to thy good
He cannot surely wrest perforce thy will.
To hear him then, what harm? By open words
A scheme of villainy is soon bewrayed.
Thou art his father, therefore canst not pay
In kind a son’s most impious outrages.
O listen to him; other men like thee
Have thankless children and are choleric,
But yielding to persuasion’s gentle spell
They let their savage mood be exorcised.
Look thou to the past, forget the present, think
On all the woe thy sire and mother brought thee;
Thence wilt thou draw this lesson without fail,
Of evil passion evil is the end.
Thou hast, alas, to prick thy memory,
Stern monitors, these ever-sightless orbs.
O yield to us; just suitors should not need
To be importunate, nor he that takes
A favor lack the grace to make return.

OEDIPUS.
Grievous to me, my child, the boon ye win
By pleading. Let it be then; have your way
Only if come he must, I beg thee, friend,
Let none have power to dispose of me.

THESEUS.
No need, Sir, to appeal a second time.
It likes me not to boast, but be assured
Thy life is safe while any god saves mine.
[Exit THESEUS]

CHORUS.
(Str.)
Who craves excess of days,
          Scorning the common span
          Of life, I judge that man
A giddy wight who walks in folly’s ways.
For the long years heap up a grievous load,
          Scant pleasures, heavier pains,
          Till not one joy remains
For him who lingers on life’s weary road
     And come it slow or fast,
          One doom of fate
          Doth all await,
          For dance and marriage bell,
          The dirge and funeral knell.
Death the deliverer freeth all at last.
(Ant.)
          Not to be born at all
          Is best, far best that can befall,
          Next best, when born, with least delay
          To trace the backward way.
For when youth passes with its giddy train,
     Troubles on troubles follow, toils on toils,
          Pain, pain for ever pain;
          And none escapes life’s coils.
          Envy, sedition, strife,
Carnage and war, make up the tale of life.
Last comes the worst and most abhorred stage
          Of unregarded age,
Joyless, companionless and slow,
          Of woes the crowning woe.

(Epode)
Such ills not I alone,
He too our guest hath known,
E’en as some headland on an iron-bound shore,
Lashed by the wintry blasts and surge’s roar,
So is he buffeted on every side
By drear misfortune’s whelming tide,
          By every wind of heaven o’erborne
          Some from the sunset, some from orient morn,
          Some from the noonday glow.
Some from Rhipean gloom of everlasting snow.

ANTIGONE.
Father, methinks I see the stranger coming,
Alone he comes and weeping plenteous tears.

OEDIPUS.
Who may he be?

ANTIGONE.
               The same that we surmised.
From the outset—Polyneices. He is here.
[Enter POLYNEICES]

POLYNEICES.
Ah me, my sisters, shall I first lament
My own afflictions, or my aged sire’s,
Whom here I find a castaway, with you,
In a strange land, an ancient beggar clad
In antic tatters, marring all his frame,
While o’er the sightless orbs his unkept locks
Float in the breeze; and, as it were to match,
He bears a wallet against hunger’s pinch.
All this too late I learn, wretch that I am,
Alas! I own it, and am proved most vile
In my neglect of thee: I scorn myself.
But as almighty Zeus in all he doth
Hath Mercy for co-partner of this throne,
Let Mercy, father, also sit enthroned
In thy heart likewise. For transgressions past
May be amended, cannot be made worse.

Why silent? Father, speak, nor turn away,
Hast thou no word, wilt thou dismiss me then
In mute disdain, nor tell me why thou art wrath?
O ye his daughters, sisters mine, do ye
This sullen, obstinate silence try to move.
Let him not spurn, without a single word
Of answer, me the suppliant of the god.

ANTIGONE.
Tell him thyself, unhappy one, thine errand;
For large discourse may send a thrill of joy,
Or stir a chord of wrath or tenderness,
And to the tongue-tied somehow give a tongue.

POLYNEICES.
Well dost thou counsel, and I will speak out.
First will I call in aid the god himself,
Poseidon, from whose altar I was raised,
With warrant from the monarch of this land,
To parley with you, and depart unscathed.
These pledges, strangers, I would see observed
By you and by my sisters and my sire.
Now, father, let me tell thee why I came.
I have been banished from my native land
Because by right of primogeniture
I claimed possession of thy sovereign throne
Wherefrom Etocles, my younger brother,
Ousted me, not by weight of precedent,
Nor by the last arbitrament of war,
But by his popular acts; and the prime cause
Of this I deem the curse that rests on thee.
So likewise hold the soothsayers, for when
I came to Argos in the Dorian land
And took the king Adrastus’ child to wife,
Under my standard I enlisted all
The foremost captains of the Apian isle,
To levy with their aid that sevenfold host
Of spearmen against Thebes, determining
To oust my foes or die in a just cause.
Why then, thou askest, am I here today?
Father, I come a suppliant to thee
Both for myself and my allies who now
With squadrons seven beneath their seven spears
Beleaguer all the plain that circles Thebes.
Foremost the peerless warrior, peerless seer,
Amphiaraiis with his lightning lance;
Next an Aetolian, Tydeus, Oeneus’ son;
Eteoclus of Argive birth the third;
The fourth Hippomedon, sent to the war
By his sire Talaos; Capaneus, the fifth,
Vaunts he will fire and raze the town; the sixth
Parthenopaeus, an Arcadian born
Named of that maid, longtime a maid and late
Espoused, Atalanta’s true-born child;
Last I thy son, or thine at least in name,
If but the bastard of an evil fate,
Lead against Thebes the fearless Argive host.
Thus by thy children and thy life, my sire,
We all adjure thee to remit thy wrath
And favor one who seeks a just revenge
Against a brother who has banned and robbed him.
For victory, if oracles speak true,
Will fall to those who have thee for ally.
So, by our fountains and familiar gods
I pray thee, yield and hear; a beggar I
And exile, thou an exile likewise; both
Involved in one misfortune find a home
As pensioners, while he, the lord of Thebes,
O agony! makes a mock of thee and me.
I’ll scatter with a breath the upstart’s might,
And bring thee home again and stablish thee,
And stablish, having cast him out, myself.
This will thy goodwill I will undertake,
Without it I can scare return alive.

CHORUS.
For the king’s sake who sent him, Oedipus,
Dismiss him not without a meet reply.

OEDIPUS.
Nay, worthy seniors, but for Theseus’ sake
Who sent him hither to have word of me.
Never again would he have heard my voice;
But now he shall obtain this parting grace,
An answer that will bring him little joy.
O villain, when thou hadst the sovereignty
That now thy brother holdeth in thy stead,
Didst thou not drive me, thine own father, out,
An exile, cityless, and make we wear
This beggar’s garb thou weepest to behold,
Now thou art come thyself to my sad plight?
Nothing is here for tears; it must be borne
By _me_ till death, and I shall think of thee
As of my murderer; thou didst thrust me out;
’Tis thou hast made me conversant with woe,
Through thee I beg my bread in a strange land;
And had not these my daughters tended me
I had been dead for aught of aid from thee.
They tend me, they preserve me, they are men
Not women in true service to their sire;
But ye are bastards, and no sons of mine.
Therefore just Heaven hath an eye on thee;
Howbeit not yet with aspect so austere
As thou shalt soon experience, if indeed
These banded hosts are moving against Thebes.
That city thou canst never storm, but first
Shall fall, thou and thy brother, blood-imbrued.
Such curse I lately launched against you twain,
Such curse I now invoke to fight for me,
That ye may learn to honor those who bear thee
Nor flout a sightless father who begat
Degenerate sons—these maidens did not so.
Therefore my curse is stronger than thy “throne,”
Thy “suppliance,” if by right of laws eterne
Primeval Justice sits enthroned with Zeus.
Begone, abhorred, disowned, no son of mine,
Thou vilest of the vile! and take with thee
This curse I leave thee as my last bequest:—
Never to win by arms thy native land,
No, nor return to Argos in the Vale,
But by a kinsman’s hand to die and slay
Him who expelled thee. So I pray and call
On the ancestral gloom of Tartarus
To snatch thee hence, on these dread goddesses
I call, and Ares who incensed you both
To mortal enmity. Go now proclaim
What thou hast heard to the Cadmeians all,
Thy staunch confederates—this the heritage
that Oedipus divideth to his sons.

CHORUS.
Thy errand, Polyneices, liked me not
From the beginning; now go back with speed.

POLYNEICES.
Woe worth my journey and my baffled hopes!
Woe worth my comrades! What a desperate end
To that glad march from Argos! Woe is me!
I dare not whisper it to my allies
Or turn them back, but mute must meet my doom.
My sisters, ye his daughters, ye have heard
The prayers of our stern father, if his curse
Should come to pass and ye some day return
To Thebes, O then disown me not, I pray,
But grant me burial and due funeral rites.
So shall the praise your filial care now wins
Be doubled for the service wrought for me.

ANTIGONE.
One boon, O Polyneices, let me crave.

POLYNEICES.
What would’st thou, sweet Antigone? Say on.

ANTIGONE.
Turn back thy host to Argos with all speed,
And ruin not thyself and Thebes as well.

POLYNEICES.
That cannot be. How could I lead again
An army that had seen their leader quail?

ANTIGONE.
But, brother, why shouldst thou be wroth again?
What profit from thy country’s ruin comes?

POLYNEICES.
’Tis shame to live in exile, and shall I
The elder bear a younger brother’s flouts?

ANTIGONE.
Wilt thou then bring to pass his prophecies
Who threatens mutual slaughter to you both?

POLYNEICES.
Aye, so he wishes:—but I must not yield.

ANTIGONE.
O woe is me! but say, will any dare,
Hearing his prophecy, to follow thee?

POLYNEICES.
I shall not tell it; a good general
Reports successes and conceals mishaps.

ANTIGONE.
Misguided youth, thy purpose then stands fast!

POLYNEICES.
’Tis so, and stay me not. The road I choose,
Dogged by my sire and his avenging spirit,
Leads me to ruin; but for you may Zeus
Make your path bright if ye fulfill my hest
When dead; in life ye cannot serve me more.
Now let me go, farewell, a long farewell!
Ye ne’er shall see my living face again.

ANTIGONE.
Ah me!

POLYNEICES.
          Bewail me not.

ANTIGONE.
                         Who would not mourn
Thee, brother, hurrying to an open pit!

POLYNEICES.
If I must die, I must.

ANTIGONE.
                         Nay, hear me plead.

POLYNEICES.
It may not be; forbear.

ANTIGONE.
                         Then woe is me,
If I must lose thee.

POLYNEICES.
                    Nay, that rests with fate,
Whether I live or die; but for you both
I pray to heaven ye may escape all ill;
For ye are blameless in the eyes of all.
[Exit POLYNEICES]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
     Ills on ills! no pause or rest!
     Come they from our sightless guest?
     Or haply now we see fulfilled
     What fate long time hath willed?
     For ne’er have I proved vain
     Aught that the heavenly powers ordain.
     Time with never sleeping eye
     Watches what is writ on high,
     Overthrowing now the great,
     Raising now from low estate.
Hark! How the thunder rumbles! Zeus defend us!

OEDIPUS.
Children, my children! will no messenger
Go summon hither Theseus my best friend?

ANTIGONE.
And wherefore, father, dost thou summon him?

OEDIPUS.
This winged thunder of the god must bear me
Anon to Hades. Send and tarry not.

CHORUS.
(Ant. 1)
Hark! with louder, nearer roar
The bolt of Zeus descends once more.
My spirit quails and cowers: my hair
Bristles for fear. Again that flare!
What doth the lightning-flash portend?
Ever it points to issues grave.
Dread powers of air! Save, Zeus, O save!

OEDIPUS.
Daughters, upon me the predestined end
Has come; no turning from it any more.

ANTIGONE.
How knowest thou? What sign convinces thee?

OEDIPUS.
I know full well. Let some one with all speed
Go summon hither the Athenian prince.

CHORUS.
(Str. 2)
Ha! once more the deafening sound
Peals yet louder all around
If thou darkenest our land,
Lightly, lightly lay thy hand;
Grace, not anger, let me win,
If upon a man of sin
I have looked with pitying eye,
Zeus, our king, to thee I cry!

OEDIPUS.
Is the prince coming? Will he when he comes
Find me yet living and my senses clear!

ANTIGONE.
What solemn charge would’st thou impress on him?

OEDIPUS.
For all his benefits I would perform
The promise made when I received them first.

CHORUS.
(Ant. 2)
          Hither haste, my son, arise,
          Altar leave and sacrifice,
          If haply to Poseidon now
          In the far glade thou pay’st thy vow.
          For our guest to thee would bring
          And thy folk and offering,
          Thy due guerdon. Haste, O King!
[Enter THESEUS]

THESEUS.
Wherefore again this general din? at once
My people call me and the stranger calls.
Is it a thunderbolt of Zeus or sleet
Of arrowy hail? a storm so fierce as this
Would warrant all surmises of mischance.

OEDIPUS.
Thou com’st much wished for, Prince, and sure some god
Hath bid good luck attend thee on thy way.

THESEUS.
What, son of Laius, hath chanced of new?

OEDIPUS.
My life hath turned the scale. I would do all
I promised thee and thine before I die.

THESEUS.
What sign assures thee that thine end is near?

OEDIPUS.
The gods themselves are heralds of my fate;
Of their appointed warnings nothing fails.

THESEUS.
How sayest thou they signify their will?

OEDIPUS.
This thunder, peal on peal, this lightning hurled
Flash upon flash, from the unconquered hand.

THESEUS.
I must believe thee, having found thee oft
A prophet true; then speak what must be done.

OEDIPUS.
O son of Aegeus, for this state will I
Unfold a treasure age cannot corrupt.
Myself anon without a guiding hand
Will take thee to the spot where I must end.
This secret ne’er reveal to mortal man,
Neither the spot nor whereabouts it lies,
So shall it ever serve thee for defense
Better than native shields and near allies.
But those dread mysteries speech may not profane
Thyself shalt gather coming there alone;
Since not to any of thy subjects, nor
To my own children, though I love them dearly,
Can I reveal what thou must guard alone,
And whisper to thy chosen heir alone,
So to be handed down from heir to heir.
Thus shalt thou hold this land inviolate
From the dread Dragon’s brood. 7 The justest State
By countless wanton neighbors may be wronged,
For the gods, though they tarry, mark for doom
The godless sinner in his mad career.
Far from thee, son of Aegeus, be such fate!
But to the spot—the god within me goads—
Let us set forth no longer hesitate.
Follow me, daughters, this way. Strange that I
Whom you have led so long should lead you now.
Oh, touch me not, but let me all alone
Find out the sepulcher that destiny
Appoints me in this land. Hither, this way,
For this way Hermes leads, the spirit guide,
And Persephassa, empress of the dead.
O light, no light to me, but mine erewhile,
Now the last time I feel thee palpable,
For I am drawing near the final gloom
Of Hades. Blessing on thee, dearest friend,
On thee and on thy land and followers!
Live prosperous and in your happy state
Still for your welfare think on me, the dead.
[Exit THESEUS followed by ANTIGONE and ISMENE]

CHORUS.
(Str.)
          If mortal prayers are heard in hell,
          Hear, Goddess dread, invisible!
          Monarch of the regions drear,
               Aidoneus, hear, O hear!
          By a gentle, tearless doom
          Speed this stranger to the gloom,
          Let him enter without pain
          The all-shrouding Stygian plain.
          Wrongfully in life oppressed,
          Be he now by Justice blessed.

(Ant.)
          Queen infernal, and thou fell
          Watch-dog of the gates of hell,
          Who, as legends tell, dost glare,
          Gnarling in thy cavernous lair
          At all comers, let him go
          Scathless to the fields below.
          For thy master orders thus,
          The son of earth and Tartarus;
          In his den the monster keep,
          Giver of eternal sleep.
[Enter MESSENGER]

MESSENGER.
Friends, countrymen, my tidings are in sum
That Oedipus is gone, but the event
Was not so brief, nor can the tale be brief.

CHORUS.
What, has he gone, the unhappy man?

MESSENGER.
                                   Know well
That he has passed away from life to death.

CHORUS.
How? By a god-sent, painless doom, poor soul?

MESSENGER.
Thy question hits the marvel of the tale.
How he moved hence, you saw him and must know;
Without a friend to lead the way, himself
Guiding us all. So having reached the abrupt
Earth-rooted Threshold with its brazen stairs,
He paused at one of the converging paths,
Hard by the rocky basin which records
The pact of Theseus and Peirithous.
Betwixt that rift and the Thorician rock,
The hollow pear-tree and the marble tomb,
Midway he sat and loosed his beggar’s weeds;
Then calling to his daughters bade them fetch
Of running water, both to wash withal
And make libation; so they clomb the steep;
And in brief space brought what their father bade,
Then laved and dressed him with observance due.
But when he had his will in everything,
And no desire was left unsatisfied,
It thundered from the netherworld; the maids
Shivered, and crouching at their father’s knees
Wept, beat their breast and uttered a long wail.
He, as he heard their sudden bitter cry,
Folded his arms about them both and said,
“My children, ye will lose your sire today,
For all of me has perished, and no more
Have ye to bear your long, long ministry;
A heavy load, I know, and yet one word
Wipes out all score of tribulations—_love_.
And love from me ye had—from no man more;
But now must live without me all your days.”
So clinging to each other sobbed and wept
Father and daughters both, but when at last
Their mourning had an end and no wail rose,
A moment there was silence; suddenly
A voice that summoned him; with sudden dread
The hair of all stood up and all were ’mazed;
For the call came, now loud, now low, and oft.
“Oedipus, Oedipus, why tarry we?
Too long, too long thy passing is delayed.”
But when he heard the summons of the god,
He prayed that Theseus might be brought, and when
The Prince came nearer: “O my friend,” he cried,
“Pledge ye my daughters, giving thy right hand—
And, daughters, give him yours—and promise me
Thou never wilt forsake them, but do all
That time and friendship prompt in their behoof.”
And he of his nobility repressed
His tears and swore to be their constant friend.
This promise given, Oedipus put forth
Blind hands and laid them on his children, saying,
“O children, prove your true nobility
And hence depart nor seek to witness sights
Unlawful or to hear unlawful words.
Nay, go with speed; let none but Theseus stay,
Our ruler, to behold what next shall hap.”
So we all heard him speak, and weeping sore
We companied the maidens on their way.
After brief space we looked again, and lo
The man was gone, evanished from our eyes;
Only the king we saw with upraised hand
Shading his eyes as from some awful sight,
That no man might endure to look upon.
A moment later, and we saw him bend
In prayer to Earth and prayer to Heaven at once.
But by what doom the stranger met his end
No man save Theseus knoweth. For there fell
No fiery bold that reft him in that hour,
Nor whirlwind from the sea, but he was taken.
It was a messenger from heaven, or else
Some gentle, painless cleaving of earth’s base;
For without wailing or disease or pain
He passed away—and end most marvelous.
And if to some my tale seems foolishness
I am content that such could count me fool.

CHORUS.
Where are the maids and their attendant friends?

MESSENGER.
They cannot be far off; the approaching sound
Of lamentation tells they come this way.
[Enter ANTIGONE and ISMENE]

ANTIGONE.
(Str. 1)
Woe, woe! on this sad day
     We sisters of one blasted stock
     must bow beneath the shock,
Must weep and weep the curse that lay
     On him our sire, for whom
In life, a life-long world of care
     ’Twas ours to bear,
     In death must face the gloom
     That wraps his tomb.
What tongue can tell
That sight ineffable?

CHORUS.
What mean ye, maidens?

ANTIGONE.
                         All is but surmise.

CHORUS.
Is he then gone?

ANTIGONE.
                    Gone as ye most might wish.
Not in battle or sea storm,
But reft from sight,
By hands invisible borne
To viewless fields of night.
Ah me! on us too night has come,
The night of mourning. Wither roam
O’er land or sea in our distress
Eating the bread of bitterness?

ISMENE.
I know not. O that Death
Might nip my breath,
And let me share my aged father’s fate.
I cannot live a life thus desolate.

CHORUS.
Best of daughters, worthy pair,
What heaven brings ye needs must bear,
Fret no more ’gainst Heaven’s will;
Fate hath dealt with you not ill.

ANTIGONE.
(Ant. 1)
Love can turn past pain to bliss,
     What seemed bitter now is sweet.
Ah me! that happy toil is sweet.
     The guidance of those dear blind feet.
Dear father, wrapt for aye in nether gloom,
     E’en in the tomb
Never shalt thou lack of love repine,
     Her love and mine.

CHORUS.
His fate—

ANTIGONE.
          Is even as he planned.

CHORUS.
How so?

ANTIGONE.
He died, so willed he, in a foreign land.
Lapped in kind earth he sleeps his long last sleep,
     And o’er his grave friends weep.
How great our lost these streaming eyes can tell,
     This sorrow naught can quell.
Thou hadst thy wish ’mid strangers thus to die,
     But I, ah me, not by.

ISMENE.
Alas, my sister, what new fate
*     *     *     *     *     *
*     *     *     *     *     *
Befalls us orphans desolate?

CHORUS.
His end was blessed; therefore, children, stay
Your sorrow. Man is born to fate a prey.

ANTIGONE.
(Str. 2)
Sister, let us back again.

ISMENE.
Why return?

ANTIGONE.
               My soul is fain—

ISMENE.
Is fain?

ANTIGONE.
          To see the earthy bed.

ISMENE.
Sayest thou?

ANTIGONE.
               Where our sire is laid.

ISMENE.
Nay, thou can’st not, dost not see—

ANTIGONE.
Sister, wherefore wroth with me?

ISMENE.
Know’st not—beside—

ANTIGONE.
                    More must I hear?

ISMENE.
Tombless he died, none near.

ANTIGONE.
Lead me thither; slay me there.

ISMENE.
How shall I unhappy fare,
Friendless, helpless, how drag on
A life of misery alone?

CHORUS.
(Ant. 2)
Fear not, maids—

ANTIGONE.
                    Ah, whither flee?

CHORUS.
Refuge hath been found.

ANTIGONE.
                         For me?

CHORUS.
Where thou shalt be safe from harm.

ANTIGONE.
I know it.

CHORUS.
          Why then this alarm?

ANTIGONE.
How again to get us home
I know not.

CHORUS.
               Why then this roam?

ANTIGONE.
Troubles whelm us—

CHORUS.
                    As of yore.

ANTIGONE.
Worse than what was worse before.

CHORUS.
Sure ye are driven on the breakers’ surge.

ANTIGONE.
Alas! we are.

CHORUS.
               Alas! ’tis so.

ANTIGONE.
Ah whither turn, O Zeus? No ray
Of hope to cheer the way
Whereon the fates our desperate voyage urge.
[Enter THESEUS]

THESEUS.
Dry your tears; when grace is shed
On the quick and on the dead
By dark Powers beneficent,
Over-grief they would resent.

ANTIGONE.
Aegeus’ child, to thee we pray.

THESEUS.
What the boon, my children, say.

ANTIGONE.
With our own eyes we fain would see
Our father’s tomb.

THESEUS.
                    That may not be.

ANTIGONE.
What say’st thou, King?

THESEUS.
                         My children, he
Charged me straitly that no moral
Should approach the sacred portal,
Or greet with funeral litanies
The hidden tomb wherein he lies;
Saying, “If thou keep’st my hest
Thou shalt hold thy realm at rest.”
The God of Oaths this promise heard,
And to Zeus I pledged my word.

ANTIGONE.
Well, if he would have it so,
We must yield. Then let us go
Back to Thebes, if yet we may
Heal this mortal feud and stay
The self-wrought doom
That drives our brothers to their tomb.

THESEUS.
Go in peace; nor will I spare
Ought of toil and zealous care,
But on all your needs attend,
Gladdening in his grave my friend.

CHORUS.
Wail no more, let sorrow rest,
All is ordered for the best.

FOOTNOTES

4 (return)
[ The Greek text for the passages marked here and later in the text
have been lost.]

5 (return)
[ To avoid the blessing, still a secret, he resorts to a commonplace;
literally, “For what generous man is not (in befriending others) a
friend to himself?”]

6 (return)
[ Creon desires to bury Oedipus on the confines of Thebes so as to
avoid the pollution and yet offer due rites at his tomb. Ismene tells
him of the latest oracle and interprets to him its purport, that some
day the Theban invaders of Athens will be routed in a battle near the
grave of Oedipus.]

7 (return)
[ The Thebans sprung from the Dragon’s teeth sown by Cadmus.]

ANTIGONE

Translation by F. Storr, BA
Formerly Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge
From the Loeb Library Edition
Originally published by
Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA
and
William Heinemann Ltd, London
First published in 1912

ARGUMENT

Antigone, daughter of Oedipus, the late king of Thebes, in defiance of
Creon who rules in his stead, resolves to bury her brother Polyneices,
slain in his attack on Thebes. She is caught in the act by Creon’s
watchmen and brought before the king. She justifies her action,
asserting that she was bound to obey the eternal laws of right and
wrong in spite of any human ordinance. Creon, unrelenting, condemns her
to be immured in a rock-hewn chamber. His son Haemon, to whom Antigone
is betrothed, pleads in vain for her life and threatens to die with
her. Warned by the seer Teiresias Creon repents him and hurries to
release Antigone from her rocky prison. But he is too late: he finds
lying side by side Antigone who had hanged herself and Haemon who also
has perished by his own hand. Returning to the palace he sees within
the dead body of his queen who on learning of her son’s death has
stabbed herself to the heart.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

ANTIGONE and ISMENE—daughters of Oedipus and sisters of Polyneices and
Eteocles.
CREON, King of Thebes.
HAEMON, Son of Creon, betrothed to Antigone.
EURYDICE, wife of Creon.
TEIRESIAS, the prophet.
CHORUS, of Theban elders.
A WATCHMAN
A MESSENGER
A SECOND MESSENGER

ANTIGONE

             ANTIGONE and ISMENE before the Palace gates.

ANTIGONE.
Ismene, sister of my blood and heart,
See’st thou how Zeus would in our lives fulfill
The weird of Oedipus, a world of woes!
For what of pain, affliction, outrage, shame,
Is lacking in our fortunes, thine and mine?
And now this proclamation of today
Made by our Captain-General to the State,
What can its purport be? Didst hear and heed,
Or art thou deaf when friends are banned as foes?

ISMENE.
To me, Antigone, no word of friends
Has come, or glad or grievous, since we twain
Were reft of our two brethren in one day
By double fratricide; and since i’ the night
Our Argive leaguers fled, no later news
Has reached me, to inspirit or deject.

ANTIGONE.
I know ’twas so, and therefore summoned thee
Beyond the gates to breathe it in thine ear.

ISMENE.
What is it? Some dark secret stirs thy breast.

ANTIGONE.
What but the thought of our two brothers dead,
The one by Creon graced with funeral rites,
The other disappointed? Eteocles
He hath consigned to earth (as fame reports)
With obsequies that use and wont ordain,
So gracing him among the dead below.
But Polyneices, a dishonored corse,
(So by report the royal edict runs)
No man may bury him or make lament—
Must leave him tombless and unwept, a feast
For kites to scent afar and swoop upon.
Such is the edict (if report speak true)
Of Creon, our most noble Creon, aimed
At thee and me, aye me too; and anon
He will be here to promulgate, for such
As have not heard, his mandate; ’tis in sooth
No passing humor, for the edict says
Whoe’er transgresses shall be stoned to death.
So stands it with us; now ’tis thine to show
If thou art worthy of thy blood or base.

ISMENE.
But how, my rash, fond sister, in such case
Can I do anything to make or mar?

ANTIGONE.
Say, wilt thou aid me and abet? Decide.

ISMENE.
In what bold venture? What is in thy thought?

ANTIGONE.
Lend me a hand to bear the corpse away.

ISMENE.
What, bury him despite the interdict?

ANTIGONE.
My brother, and, though thou deny him, thine
No man shall say that _I_ betrayed a brother.

ISMENE.
Wilt thou persist, though Creon has forbid?

ANTIGONE.
What right has he to keep me from my own?

ISMENE.
Bethink thee, sister, of our father’s fate,
Abhorred, dishonored, self-convinced of sin,
Blinded, himself his executioner.
Think of his mother-wife (ill sorted names)
Done by a noose herself had twined to death
And last, our hapless brethren in one day,
Both in a mutual destiny involved,
Self-slaughtered, both the slayer and the slain.
Bethink thee, sister, we are left alone;
Shall we not perish wretchedest of all,
If in defiance of the law we cross
A monarch’s will?—weak women, think of that,
Not framed by nature to contend with men.
Remember this too that the stronger rules;
We must obey his orders, these or worse.
Therefore I plead compulsion and entreat
The dead to pardon. I perforce obey
The powers that be. ’Tis foolishness, I ween,
To overstep in aught the golden mean.

ANTIGONE.
I urge no more; nay, wert thou willing still,
I would not welcome such a fellowship.
Go thine own way; myself will bury him.
How sweet to die in such employ, to rest,—
Sister and brother linked in love’s embrace—
A sinless sinner, banned awhile on earth,
But by the dead commended; and with them
I shall abide for ever. As for thee,
Scorn, if thou wilt, the eternal laws of Heaven.

ISMENE.
I scorn them not, but to defy the State
Or break her ordinance I have no skill.

ANTIGONE.
A specious pretext. I will go alone
To lap my dearest brother in the grave.

ISMENE.
My poor, fond sister, how I fear for thee!

ANTIGONE.
O waste no fears on me; look to thyself.

ISMENE.
At least let no man know of thine intent,
But keep it close and secret, as will I.

ANTIGONE.
O tell it, sister; I shall hate thee more
If thou proclaim it not to all the town.

ISMENE.
Thou hast a fiery soul for numbing work.

ANTIGONE.
I pleasure those whom I would liefest please.

ISMENE.
If thou succeed; but thou art doomed to fail.

ANTIGONE.
When strength shall fail me, yes, but not before.

ISMENE.
But, if the venture’s hopeless, why essay?

ANTIGONE.
Sister, forbear, or I shall hate thee soon,
And the dead man will hate thee too, with cause.
Say I am mad and give my madness rein
To wreck itself; the worst that can befall
Is but to die an honorable death.

ISMENE.
Have thine own way then; ’tis a mad endeavor,
Yet to thy lovers thou art dear as ever.
[Exeunt]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Sunbeam, of all that ever dawn upon
          Our seven-gated Thebes the brightest ray,
               O eye of golden day,
How fair thy light o’er Dirce’s fountain shone,
Speeding upon their headlong homeward course,
Far quicker than they came, the Argive force;
               Putting to flight
The argent shields, the host with scutcheons white.
Against our land the proud invader came
To vindicate fell Polyneices’ claim.
          Like to an eagle swooping low,
          On pinions white as new fall’n snow.
With clanging scream, a horsetail plume his crest,
The aspiring lord of Argos onward pressed.

(Ant. 1)
Hovering around our city walls he waits,
His spearmen raven at our seven gates.
But ere a torch our crown of towers could burn,
Ere they had tasted of our blood, they turn
Forced by the Dragon; in their rear
The din of Ares panic-struck they hear.
For Zeus who hates the braggart’s boast
Beheld that gold-bespangled host;
As at the goal the paean they upraise,
He struck them with his forked lightning blaze.

(Str. 2)
To earthy from earth rebounding, down he crashed;
     The fire-brand from his impious hand was dashed,
As like a Bacchic reveler on he came,
Outbreathing hate and flame,
And tottered. Elsewhere in the field,
Here, there, great Area like a war-horse wheeled;
          Beneath his car down thrust
          Our foemen bit the dust.

Seven captains at our seven gates
Thundered; for each a champion waits,
Each left behind his armor bright,
Trophy for Zeus who turns the fight;
Save two alone, that ill-starred pair
One mother to one father bare,
Who lance in rest, one ’gainst the other
Drave, and both perished, brother slain by brother.

(Ant. 2)
Now Victory to Thebes returns again
And smiles upon her chariot-circled plain.
          Now let feast and festal should
          Memories of war blot out.
          Let us to the temples throng,
          Dance and sing the live night long.
          God of Thebes, lead thou the round.
          Bacchus, shaker of the ground!
          Let us end our revels here;
          Lo! Creon our new lord draws near,
          Crowned by this strange chance, our king.
          What, I marvel, pondering?
          Why this summons? Wherefore call
          Us, his elders, one and all,
          Bidding us with him debate,
          On some grave concern of State?
[Enter CREON]

CREON.
Elders, the gods have righted one again
Our storm-tossed ship of state, now safe in port.
But you by special summons I convened
As my most trusted councilors; first, because
I knew you loyal to Laius of old;
Again, when Oedipus restored our State,
Both while he ruled and when his rule was o’er,
Ye still were constant to the royal line.
Now that his two sons perished in one day,
Brother by brother murderously slain,
By right of kinship to the Princes dead,
I claim and hold the throne and sovereignty.
Yet ’tis no easy matter to discern
The temper of a man, his mind and will,
Till he be proved by exercise of power;
And in my case, if one who reigns supreme
Swerve from the highest policy, tongue-tied
By fear of consequence, that man I hold,
And ever held, the basest of the base.
And I contemn the man who sets his friend
Before his country. For myself, I call
To witness Zeus, whose eyes are everywhere,
If I perceive some mischievous design
To sap the State, I will not hold my tongue;
Nor would I reckon as my private friend
A public foe, well knowing that the State
Is the good ship that holds our fortunes all:
Farewell to friendship, if she suffers wreck.
Such is the policy by which I seek
To serve the Commons and conformably
I have proclaimed an edict as concerns
The sons of Oedipus; Eteocles
Who in his country’s battle fought and fell,
The foremost champion—duly bury him
With all observances and ceremonies
That are the guerdon of the heroic dead.
But for the miscreant exile who returned
Minded in flames and ashes to blot out
His father’s city and his father’s gods,
And glut his vengeance with his kinsmen’s blood,
Or drag them captive at his chariot wheels—
For Polyneices ’tis ordained that none
Shall give him burial or make mourn for him,
But leave his corpse unburied, to be meat
For dogs and carrion crows, a ghastly sight.
So am I purposed; never by my will
Shall miscreants take precedence of true men,
But all good patriots, alive or dead,
Shall be by me preferred and honored.

CHORUS.
Son of Menoeceus, thus thou will’st to deal
With him who loathed and him who loved our State.
Thy word is law; thou canst dispose of us
The living, as thou will’st, as of the dead.

CREON.
See then ye execute what I ordain.

CHORUS.
On younger shoulders lay this grievous charge.

CREON.
Fear not, I’ve posted guards to watch the corpse.

CHORUS.
What further duty would’st thou lay on us?

CREON.
Not to connive at disobedience.

CHORUS.
No man is mad enough to court his death.

CREON.
The penalty _is_ death: yet hope of gain
Hath lured men to their ruin oftentimes.
[Enter GUARD]

GUARD.
My lord, I will not make pretense to pant
And puff as some light-footed messenger.
In sooth my soul beneath its pack of thought
Made many a halt and turned and turned again;
For conscience plied her spur and curb by turns.
“Why hurry headlong to thy fate, poor fool?”
She whispered. Then again, “If Creon learn
This from another, thou wilt rue it worse.”
Thus leisurely I hastened on my road;
Much thought extends a furlong to a league.
But in the end the forward voice prevailed,
To face thee. I will speak though I say nothing.
For plucking courage from despair methought,
‘Let the worst hap, thou canst but meet thy fate.’

CREON.
What is thy news? Why this despondency?

GUARD.
Let me premise a word about myself?
I neither did the deed nor saw it done,
Nor were it just that I should come to harm.

CREON.
Thou art good at parry, and canst fence about
Some matter of grave import, as is plain.

GUARD.
The bearer of dread tidings needs must quake.

CREON.
Then, sirrah, shoot thy bolt and get thee gone.

GUARD.
Well, it must out; the corpse is buried; someone
E’en now besprinkled it with thirsty dust,
Performed the proper ritual—and was gone.

CREON.
What say’st thou? Who hath dared to do this thing?

GUARD.
I cannot tell, for there was ne’er a trace
Of pick or mattock—hard unbroken ground,
Without a scratch or rut of chariot wheels,
No sign that human hands had been at work.
When the first sentry of the morning watch
Gave the alarm, we all were terror-stricken.
The corpse had vanished, not interred in earth,
But strewn with dust, as if by one who sought
To avert the curse that haunts the unburied dead:
Of hound or ravening jackal, not a sign.
Thereat arose an angry war of words;
Guard railed at guard and blows were like to end it,
For none was there to part us, each in turn
Suspected, but the guilt brought home to none,
From lack of evidence. We challenged each
The ordeal, or to handle red-hot iron,
Or pass through fire, affirming on our oath
Our innocence—we neither did the deed
Ourselves, nor know who did or compassed it.
Our quest was at a standstill, when one spake
And bowed us all to earth like quivering reeds,
For there was no gainsaying him nor way
To escape perdition: _Ye_are_bound_to_tell_
_The_King,_ye_cannot_hide_it; so he spake.
And he convinced us all; so lots were cast,
And I, unlucky scapegoat, drew the prize.
So here I am unwilling and withal
Unwelcome; no man cares to hear ill news.

CHORUS.
I had misgivings from the first, my liege,
Of something more than natural at work.

CREON.
O cease, you vex me with your babblement;
I am like to think you dote in your old age.
Is it not arrant folly to pretend
That gods would have a thought for this dead man?
Did they forsooth award him special grace,
And as some benefactor bury him,
Who came to fire their hallowed sanctuaries,
To sack their shrines, to desolate their land,
And scout their ordinances? Or perchance
The gods bestow their favors on the bad.
No! no! I have long noted malcontents
Who wagged their heads, and kicked against the yoke,
Misliking these my orders, and my rule.
’Tis they, I warrant, who suborned my guards
By bribes. Of evils current upon earth
The worst is money. Money ’tis that sacks
Cities, and drives men forth from hearth and home;
Warps and seduces native innocence,
And breeds a habit of dishonesty.
But they who sold themselves shall find their greed
Out-shot the mark, and rue it soon or late.
Yea, as I still revere the dread of Zeus,
By Zeus I swear, except ye find and bring
Before my presence here the very man
Who carried out this lawless burial,
Death for your punishment shall not suffice.
Hanged on a cross, alive ye first shall make
Confession of this outrage. This will teach you
What practices are like to serve your turn.
There are some villainies that bring no gain.
For by dishonesty the few may thrive,
The many come to ruin and disgrace.

GUARD.
May I not speak, or must I turn and go
Without a word?—

CREON.
                    Begone! canst thou not see
That e’en this question irks me?

GUARD.
                                   Where, my lord?
Is it thy ears that suffer, or thy heart?

CREON.
Why seek to probe and find the seat of pain?

GUARD.
I gall thine ears—this miscreant thy mind.

CREON.
What an inveterate babbler! get thee gone!

GUARD.
Babbler perchance, but innocent of the crime.

CREON.
Twice guilty, having sold thy soul for gain.

GUARD.
Alas! how sad when reasoners reason wrong.

CREON.
Go, quibble with thy reason. If thou fail’st
To find these malefactors, thou shalt own
The wages of ill-gotten gains is death.
[Exit CREON]

GUARD.
I pray he may be found. But caught or not
(And fortune must determine that) thou never
Shalt see me here returning; that is sure.
For past all hope or thought I have escaped,
And for my safety owe the gods much thanks.

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Many wonders there be, but naught more wondrous than man;
Over the surging sea, with a whitening south wind wan,
Through the foam of the firth, man makes his perilous way;
And the eldest of deities Earth that knows not toil nor decay
Ever he furrows and scores, as his team, year in year out,
With breed of the yoked horse, the ploughshare turneth about.

(Ant. 1)
The light-witted birds of the air, the beasts of the weald and the wood
He traps with his woven snare, and the brood of the briny flood.
Master of cunning he: the savage bull, and the hart
Who roams the mountain free, are tamed by his infinite art;
And the shaggy rough-maned steed is broken to bear the bit.

(Str. 2)
Speech and the wind-swift speed of counsel and civic wit,
He hath learnt for himself all these; and the arrowy rain to fly
And the nipping airs that freeze, ’neath the open winter sky.
He hath provision for all: fell plague he hath learnt to endure;
Safe whate’er may befall: yet for death he hath found no cure.

(Ant. 2)
Passing the wildest flight thought are the cunning and skill,
That guide man now to the light, but now to counsels of ill.
If he honors the laws of the land, and reveres the Gods of the State
Proudly his city shall stand; but a cityless outcast I rate
Whoso bold in his pride from the path of right doth depart;
Ne’er may I sit by his side, or share the thoughts of his heart.

          What strange vision meets my eyes,
          Fills me with a wild surprise?
          Sure I know her, sure ’tis she,
          The maid Antigone.
          Hapless child of hapless sire,
          Didst thou recklessly conspire,
          Madly brave the King’s decree?
          Therefore are they haling thee?
[Enter GUARD bringing ANTIGONE]

GUARD.
Here is the culprit taken in the act
Of giving burial. But where’s the King?

CHORUS.
There from the palace he returns in time.
[Enter CREON]

CREON.
Why is my presence timely? What has chanced?

GUARD.
No man, my lord, should make a vow, for if
He ever swears he will not do a thing,
His afterthoughts belie his first resolve.
When from the hail-storm of thy threats I fled
I sware thou wouldst not see me here again;
But the wild rapture of a glad surprise
Intoxicates, and so I’m here forsworn.
And here’s my prisoner, caught in the very act,
Decking the grave. No lottery this time;
This prize is mine by right of treasure-trove.
So take her, judge her, rack her, if thou wilt.
She’s thine, my liege; but I may rightly claim
Hence to depart well quit of all these ills.

CREON.
Say, how didst thou arrest the maid, and where?

GUARD.
Burying the man. There’s nothing more to tell.

CREON.
Hast thou thy wits? Or know’st thou what thou say’st?

GUARD.
I saw this woman burying the corpse
Against thy orders. Is that clear and plain?

CREON.
But how was she surprised and caught in the act?

GUARD.
It happened thus. No sooner had we come,
Driven from thy presence by those awful threats,
Than straight we swept away all trace of dust,
And bared the clammy body. Then we sat
High on the ridge to windward of the stench,
While each man kept he fellow alert and rated
Roundly the sluggard if he chanced to nap.
So all night long we watched, until the sun
Stood high in heaven, and his blazing beams
Smote us. A sudden whirlwind then upraised
A cloud of dust that blotted out the sky,
And swept the plain, and stripped the woodlands bare,
And shook the firmament. We closed our eyes
And waited till the heaven-sent plague should pass.
At last it ceased, and lo! there stood this maid.
A piercing cry she uttered, sad and shrill,
As when the mother bird beholds her nest
Robbed of its nestlings; even so the maid
Wailed as she saw the body stripped and bare,
And cursed the ruffians who had done this deed.
Anon she gathered handfuls of dry dust,
Then, holding high a well-wrought brazen urn,
Thrice on the dead she poured a lustral stream.
We at the sight swooped down on her and seized
Our quarry. Undismayed she stood, and when
We taxed her with the former crime and this,
She disowned nothing. I was glad—and grieved;
For ’tis most sweet to ’scape oneself scot-free,
And yet to bring disaster to a friend
Is grievous. Take it all in all, I deem
A man’s first duty is to serve himself.

CREON.
Speak, girl, with head bent low and downcast eyes,
Does thou plead guilty or deny the deed?

ANTIGONE.
Guilty. I did it, I deny it not.

CREON (to GUARD)
Sirrah, begone whither thou wilt, and thank
Thy luck that thou hast ’scaped a heavy charge.
(To ANTIGONE)
Now answer this plain question, yes or no,
Wast thou acquainted with the interdict?

ANTIGONE.
I knew, all knew; how should I fail to know?

CREON.
And yet wert bold enough to break the law?

ANTIGONE.
Yea, for these laws were not ordained of Zeus,
And she who sits enthroned with gods below,
Justice, enacted not these human laws.
Nor did I deem that thou, a mortal man,
Could’st by a breath annul and override
The immutable unwritten laws of Heaven.
They were not born today nor yesterday;
They die not; and none knoweth whence they sprang.
I was not like, who feared no mortal’s frown,
To disobey these laws and so provoke
The wrath of Heaven. I knew that I must die,
E’en hadst thou not proclaimed it; and if death
Is thereby hastened, I shall count it gain.
For death is gain to him whose life, like mine,
Is full of misery. Thus my lot appears
Not sad, but blissful; for had I endured
To leave my mother’s son unburied there,
I should have grieved with reason, but not now.
And if in this thou judgest me a fool,
Methinks the judge of folly’s not acquit.

CHORUS.
A stubborn daughter of a stubborn sire,
This ill-starred maiden kicks against the pricks.

CREON.
Well, let her know the stubbornest of wills
Are soonest bended, as the hardest iron,
O’er-heated in the fire to brittleness,
Flies soonest into fragments, shivered through.
A snaffle curbs the fieriest steed, and he
Who in subjection lives must needs be meek.
But this proud girl, in insolence well-schooled,
First overstepped the established law, and then—
A second and worse act of insolence—
She boasts and glories in her wickedness.
Now if she thus can flout authority
Unpunished, I am woman, she the man.
But though she be my sister’s child or nearer
Of kin than all who worship at my hearth,
Nor she nor yet her sister shall escape
The utmost penalty, for both I hold,
As arch-conspirators, of equal guilt.
Bring forth the older; even now I saw her
Within the palace, frenzied and distraught.
The workings of the mind discover oft
Dark deeds in darkness schemed, before the act.
More hateful still the miscreant who seeks
When caught, to make a virtue of a crime.

ANTIGONE.
Would’st thou do more than slay thy prisoner?

CREON.
Not I, thy life is mine, and that’s enough.

ANTIGONE.
Why dally then? To me no word of thine
Is pleasant: God forbid it e’er should please;
Nor am I more acceptable to thee.
And yet how otherwise had I achieved
A name so glorious as by burying
A brother? so my townsmen all would say,
Where they not gagged by terror, Manifold
A king’s prerogatives, and not the least
That all his acts and all his words are law.

CREON.
Of all these Thebans none so deems but thou.

ANTIGONE.
These think as I, but bate their breath to thee.

CREON.
Hast thou no shame to differ from all these?

ANTIGONE.
To reverence kith and kin can bring no shame.

CREON.
Was his dead foeman not thy kinsman too?

ANTIGONE.
One mother bare them and the self-same sire.

CREON.
Why cast a slur on one by honoring one?

ANTIGONE.
The dead man will not bear thee out in this.

CREON.
Surely, if good and evil fare alive.

ANTIGONE.
The slain man was no villain but a brother.

CREON.
The patriot perished by the outlaw’s brand.

ANTIGONE.
Nathless the realms below these rites require.

CREON.
Not that the base should fare as do the brave.

ANTIGONE.
Who knows if this world’s crimes are virtues there?

CREON.
Not even death can make a foe a friend.

ANTIGONE.
My nature is for mutual love, not hate.

CREON.
Die then, and love the dead if thou must;
No woman shall be the master while I live.
[Enter ISMENE]

CHORUS.
          Lo from out the palace gate,
          Weeping o’er her sister’s fate,
          Comes Ismene; see her brow,
          Once serene, beclouded now,
          See her beauteous face o’erspread
          With a flush of angry red.

CREON.
Woman, who like a viper unperceived
Didst harbor in my house and drain my blood,
Two plagues I nurtured blindly, so it proved,
To sap my throne. Say, didst thou too abet
This crime, or dost abjure all privity?

ISMENE.
I did the deed, if she will have it so,
And with my sister claim to share the guilt.

ANTIGONE.
That were unjust. Thou would’st not act with me
At first, and I refused thy partnership.

ISMENE.
But now thy bark is stranded, I am bold
To claim my share as partner in the loss.

ANTIGONE.
Who did the deed the under-world knows well:
A friend in word is never friend of mine.

ISMENE.
O sister, scorn me not, let me but share
Thy work of piety, and with thee die.

ANTIGONE.
Claim not a work in which thou hadst no hand;
One death sufficeth. Wherefore should’st thou die?

ISMENE.
What would life profit me bereft of thee?

ANTIGONE.
Ask Creon, he’s thy kinsman and best friend.

ISMENE.
Why taunt me? Find’st thou pleasure in these gibes?

ANTIGONE.
’Tis a sad mockery, if indeed I mock.

ISMENE.
O say if I can help thee even now.

ANTIGONE.
No, save thyself; I grudge not thy escape.

ISMENE.
Is e’en this boon denied, to share thy lot?

ANTIGONE.
Yea, for thou chosed’st life, and I to die.

ISMENE.
Thou canst not say that I did not protest.

ANTIGONE.
Well, some approved thy wisdom, others mine.

ISMENE.
But now we stand convicted, both alike.

ANTIGONE.
Fear not; thou livest, I died long ago
Then when I gave my life to save the dead.

CREON.
Both maids, methinks, are crazed. One suddenly
Has lost her wits, the other was born mad.

ISMENE.
Yea, so it falls, sire, when misfortune comes,
The wisest even lose their mother wit.

CREON.
I’ faith thy wit forsook thee when thou mad’st
Thy choice with evil-doers to do ill.

ISMENE.
What life for me without my sister here?

CREON.
Say not thy sister _here_: thy sister’s dead.

ISMENE.
What, wilt thou slay thy own son’s plighted bride?

CREON.
Aye, let him raise him seed from other fields.

ISMENE.
No new espousal can be like the old.

CREON.
A plague on trulls who court and woo our sons.

ANTIGONE.
O Haemon, how thy sire dishonors thee!

CREON.
A plague on thee and thy accursed bride!

CHORUS.
What, wilt thou rob thine own son of his bride?

CREON.
’Tis death that bars this marriage, not his sire.

CHORUS.
So her death-warrant, it would seem, is sealed.

CREON.
By you, as first by me; off with them, guards,
And keep them close. Henceforward let them learn
To live as women use, not roam at large.
For e’en the bravest spirits run away
When they perceive death pressing on life’s heels.

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Thrice blest are they who never tasted pain!
     If once the curse of Heaven attaint a race,
     The infection lingers on and speeds apace,
Age after age, and each the cup must drain.

So when Etesian blasts from Thrace downpour
     Sweep o’er the blackening main and whirl to land
     From Ocean’s cavernous depths his ooze and sand,
Billow on billow thunders on the shore.

(Ant. 1)
On the Labdacidae I see descending
     Woe upon woe; from days of old some god
     Laid on the race a malison, and his rod
Scourges each age with sorrows never ending.

The light that dawned upon its last born son
     Is vanished, and the bloody axe of Fate
     Has felled the goodly tree that blossomed late.
O Oedipus, by reckless pride undone!

(Str. 2)
Thy might, O Zeus, what mortal power can quell?
Not sleep that lays all else beneath its spell,
Nor moons that never tire: untouched by Time,
          Throned in the dazzling light
          That crowns Olympus’ height,
Thou reignest King, omnipotent, sublime.

          Past, present, and to be,
          All bow to thy decree,
          All that exceeds the mean by Fate
          Is punished, Love or Hate.

(Ant. 2)
Hope flits about never-wearying wings;
Profit to some, to some light loves she brings,
But no man knoweth how her gifts may turn,
Till ’neath his feet the treacherous ashes burn.
Sure ’twas a sage inspired that spake this word;
          _If evil good appear_
          _To any, Fate is near_;
And brief the respite from her flaming sword.

          Hither comes in angry mood
          Haemon, latest of thy brood;
          Is it for his bride he’s grieved,
          Or her marriage-bed deceived,
          Doth he make his mourn for thee,
          Maid forlorn, Antigone?
[Enter HAEMON]

CREON.
Soon shall we know, better than seer can tell.
Learning may fixed decree anent thy bride,
Thou mean’st not, son, to rave against thy sire?
Know’st not whate’er we do is done in love?

HAEMON.
O father, I am thine, and I will take
Thy wisdom as the helm to steer withal.
Therefore no wedlock shall by me be held
More precious than thy loving goverance.

CREON.
Well spoken: so right-minded sons should feel,
In all deferring to a father’s will.
For ’tis the hope of parents they may rear
A brood of sons submissive, keen to avenge
Their father’s wrongs, and count his friends their own.
But who begets unprofitable sons,
He verily breeds trouble for himself,
And for his foes much laughter. Son, be warned
And let no woman fool away thy wits.
Ill fares the husband mated with a shrew,
And her embraces very soon wax cold.
For what can wound so surely to the quick
As a false friend? So spue and cast her off,
Bid her go find a husband with the dead.
For since I caught her openly rebelling,
Of all my subjects the one malcontent,
I will not prove a traitor to the State.
She surely dies. Go, let her, if she will,
Appeal to Zeus the God of Kindred, for
If thus I nurse rebellion in my house,
Shall not I foster mutiny without?
For whoso rules his household worthily,
Will prove in civic matters no less wise.
But he who overbears the laws, or thinks
To overrule his rulers, such as one
I never will allow. Whome’er the State
Appoints must be obeyed in everything,
But small and great, just and unjust alike.
I warrant such a one in either case
Would shine, as King or subject; such a man
Would in the storm of battle stand his ground,
A comrade leal and true; but Anarchy—
What evils are not wrought by Anarchy!
She ruins States, and overthrows the home,
She dissipates and routs the embattled host;
While discipline preserves the ordered ranks.
Therefore we must maintain authority
And yield to title to a woman’s will.
Better, if needs be, men should cast us out
Than hear it said, a woman proved his match.

CHORUS.
To me, unless old age have dulled wits,
Thy words appear both reasonable and wise.

HAEMON.
Father, the gods implant in mortal men
Reason, the choicest gift bestowed by heaven.
’Tis not for me to say thou errest, nor
Would I arraign thy wisdom, if I could;
And yet wise thoughts may come to other men
And, as thy son, it falls to me to mark
The acts, the words, the comments of the crowd.
The commons stand in terror of thy frown,
And dare not utter aught that might offend,
But I can overhear their muttered plaints,
Know how the people mourn this maiden doomed
For noblest deeds to die the worst of deaths.
When her own brother slain in battle lay
Unsepulchered, she suffered not his corse
To lie for carrion birds and dogs to maul:
Should not her name (they cry) be writ in gold?
Such the low murmurings that reach my ear.
O father, nothing is by me more prized
Than thy well-being, for what higher good
Can children covet than their sire’s fair fame,
As fathers too take pride in glorious sons?
Therefore, my father, cling not to one mood,
And deemed not thou art right, all others wrong.
For whoso thinks that wisdom dwells with him,
That he alone can speak or think aright,
Such oracles are empty breath when tried.
The wisest man will let himself be swayed
By others’ wisdom and relax in time.
See how the trees beside a stream in flood
Save, if they yield to force, each spray unharmed,
But by resisting perish root and branch.
The mariner who keeps his mainsheet taut,
And will not slacken in the gale, is like
To sail with thwarts reversed, keel uppermost.
Relent then and repent thee of thy wrath;
For, if one young in years may claim some sense,
I’ll say ’tis best of all to be endowed
With absolute wisdom; but, if that’s denied,
(And nature takes not readily that ply)
Next wise is he who lists to sage advice.

CHORUS.
If he says aught in season, heed him, King.
(To HAEMON)
Heed thou thy sire too; both have spoken well.

CREON.
What, would you have us at our age be schooled,
Lessoned in prudence by a beardless boy?

HAEMON.
I plead for justice, father, nothing more.
Weigh me upon my merit, not my years.

CREON.
Strange merit this to sanction lawlessness!

HAEMON.
For evil-doers I would urge no plea.

CREON.
Is not this maid an arrant law-breaker?

HAEMON.
The Theban commons with one voice say, No.

CREON.
What, shall the mob dictate my policy?

HAEMON.
’Tis thou, methinks, who speakest like a boy.

CREON.
Am I to rule for others, or myself?

HAEMON.
A State for one man is no State at all.

CREON.
The State is his who rules it, so ’tis held.

HAEMON.
As monarch of a desert thou wouldst shine.

CREON.
This boy, methinks, maintains the woman’s cause.

HAEMON.
If thou be’st woman, yes. My thought’s for thee.

CREON.
O reprobate, would’st wrangle with thy sire?

HAEMON.
Because I see thee wrongfully perverse.

CREON.
And am I wrong, if I maintain my rights?

HAEMON.
Talk not of rights; thou spurn’st the due of Heaven

CREON.
O heart corrupt, a woman’s minion thou!

HAEMON.
Slave to dishonor thou wilt never find me.

CREON.
Thy speech at least was all a plea for her.

HAEMON.
And thee and me, and for the gods below.

CREON.
Living the maid shall never be thy bride.

HAEMON.
So she shall die, but one will die with her.

CREON.
Hast come to such a pass as threaten me?

HAEMON.
What threat is this, vain counsels to reprove?

CREON.
Vain fool to instruct thy betters; thou shall rue it.

HAEMON.
Wert not my father, I had said thou err’st.

CREON.
Play not the spaniel, thou a woman’s slave.

HAEMON.
When thou dost speak, must no man make reply?

CREON.
This passes bounds. By heaven, thou shalt not rate
And jeer and flout me with impunity.
Off with the hateful thing that she may die
At once, beside her bridegroom, in his sight.

HAEMON.
Think not that in my sight the maid shall die,
Or by my side; never shalt thou again
Behold my face hereafter. Go, consort
With friends who like a madman for their mate.
[Exit HAEMON]

CHORUS.
Thy son has gone, my liege, in angry haste.
Fell is the wrath of youth beneath a smart.

CREON.
Let him go vent his fury like a fiend:
These sisters twain he shall not save from death.

CHORUS.
Surely, thou meanest not to slay them both?

CREON.
I stand corrected; only her who touched
The body.

CHORUS.
          And what death is she to die?

CREON.
She shall be taken to some desert place
By man untrod, and in a rock-hewn cave,
With food no more than to avoid the taint
That homicide might bring on all the State,
Buried alive. There let her call in aid
The King of Death, the one god she reveres,
Or learn too late a lesson learnt at last:
’Tis labor lost, to reverence the dead.

CHORUS.
(Str.)
Love resistless in fight, all yield at a glance of thine eye,
Love who pillowed all night on a maiden’s cheek dost lie,
Over the upland holds. Shall mortals not yield to thee?

(Ant).
Mad are thy subjects all, and even the wisest heart
Straight to folly will fall, at a touch of thy poisoned dart.
Thou didst kindle the strife, this feud of kinsman with kin,
By the eyes of a winsome wife, and the yearning her heart to win.
For as her consort still, enthroned with Justice above,
Thou bendest man to thy will, O all invincible Love.

          Lo I myself am borne aside,
          From Justice, as I view this bride.
          (O sight an eye in tears to drown)
          Antigone, so young, so fair,
               Thus hurried down
          Death’s bower with the dead to share.

ANTIGONE.
(Str. 1)
Friends, countrymen, my last farewell I make;
          My journey’s done.
One last fond, lingering, longing look I take
          At the bright sun.
For Death who puts to sleep both young and old
          Hales my young life,
And beckons me to Acheron’s dark fold,
          An unwed wife.
No youths have sung the marriage song for me,
          My bridal bed
No maids have strewn with flowers from the lea,
          ’Tis Death I wed.

CHORUS.
          But bethink thee, thou art sped,
          Great and glorious, to the dead.
          Thou the sword’s edge hast not tasted,
          No disease thy frame hath wasted.
          Freely thou alone shalt go
          Living to the dead below.

ANTIGONE.
(Ant. 1)
Nay, but the piteous tale I’ve heard men tell
     Of Tantalus’ doomed child,
Chained upon Siphylus’ high rocky fell,
     That clung like ivy wild,
Drenched by the pelting rain and whirling snow,
     Left there to pine,
While on her frozen breast the tears aye flow—
     Her fate is mine.

CHORUS.
          She was sprung of gods, divine,
          Mortals we of mortal line.
          Like renown with gods to gain
          Recompenses all thy pain.
          Take this solace to thy tomb
          Hers in life and death thy doom.

ANTIGONE.
(Str. 2)
Alack, alack! Ye mock me. Is it meet
     Thus to insult me living, to my face?
Cease, by our country’s altars I entreat,
     Ye lordly rulers of a lordly race.
O fount of Dirce, wood-embowered plain
     Where Theban chariots to victory speed,
Mark ye the cruel laws that now have wrought my bane,
     The friends who show no pity in my need!
Was ever fate like mine? O monstrous doom,
     Within a rock-built prison sepulchered,
To fade and wither in a living tomb,
     And alien midst the living and the dead.

CHORUS.
(Str. 3)
          In thy boldness over-rash
          Madly thou thy foot didst dash
          ’Gainst high Justice’ altar stair.
          Thou a father’s guild dost bear.

ANTIGONE.
(Ant. 2)
At this thou touchest my most poignant pain,
     My ill-starred father’s piteous disgrace,
The taint of blood, the hereditary stain,
     That clings to all of Labdacus’ famed race.
Woe worth the monstrous marriage-bed where lay
     A mother with the son her womb had borne,
Therein I was conceived, woe worth the day,
     Fruit of incestuous sheets, a maid forlorn,
And now I pass, accursed and unwed,
     To meet them as an alien there below;
And thee, O brother, in marriage ill-bestead,
     ’Twas thy dead hand that dealt me this death-blow.

CHORUS.
          Religion has her chains, ’tis true,
          Let rite be paid when rites are due.
          Yet is it ill to disobey
          The powers who hold by might the sway.
          Thou hast withstood authority,
          A self-willed rebel, thou must die.

ANTIGONE.
Unwept, unwed, unfriended, hence I go,
     No longer may I see the day’s bright eye;
Not one friend left to share my bitter woe,
     And o’er my ashes heave one passing sigh.

CREON.
If wail and lamentation aught availed
To stave off death, I trow they’d never end.
Away with her, and having walled her up
In a rock-vaulted tomb, as I ordained,
Leave her alone at liberty to die,
Or, if she choose, to live in solitude,
The tomb her dwelling. We in either case
Are guiltless as concerns this maiden’s blood,
Only on earth no lodging shall she find.

ANTIGONE.
O grave, O bridal bower, O prison house
Hewn from the rock, my everlasting home,
Whither I go to join the mighty host
Of kinsfolk, Persephassa’s guests long dead,
The last of all, of all more miserable,
I pass, my destined span of years cut short.
And yet good hope is mine that I shall find
A welcome from my sire, a welcome too,
From thee, my mother, and my brother dear;
From with these hands, I laved and decked your limbs
In death, and poured libations on your grave.
And last, my Polyneices, unto thee
I paid due rites, and this my recompense!
Yet am I justified in wisdom’s eyes.
For even had it been some child of mine,
Or husband mouldering in death’s decay,
I had not wrought this deed despite the State.
What is the law I call in aid? ’Tis thus
I argue. Had it been a husband dead
I might have wed another, and have borne
Another child, to take the dead child’s place.
But, now my sire and mother both are dead,
No second brother can be born for me.
Thus by the law of conscience I was led
To honor thee, dear brother, and was judged
By Creon guilty of a heinous crime.
And now he drags me like a criminal,
A bride unwed, amerced of marriage-song
And marriage-bed and joys of motherhood,
By friends deserted to a living grave.
What ordinance of heaven have I transgressed?
Hereafter can I look to any god
For succor, call on any man for help?
Alas, my piety is impious deemed.
Well, if such justice is approved of heaven,
I shall be taught by suffering my sin;
But if the sin is theirs, O may they suffer
No worse ills than the wrongs they do to me.

CHORUS.
The same ungovernable will
Drives like a gale the maiden still.

CREON.
Therefore, my guards who let her stay
Shall smart full sore for their delay.

ANTIGONE.
Ah, woe is me! This word I hear
Brings death most near.

CHORUS.
I have no comfort. What he saith,
Portends no other thing than death.

ANTIGONE.
My fatherland, city of Thebes divine,
Ye gods of Thebes whence sprang my line,
Look, puissant lords of Thebes, on me;
The last of all your royal house ye see.
Martyred by men of sin, undone.
Such meed my piety hath won.
[Exit ANTIGONE]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Like to thee that maiden bright,
          Danae, in her brass-bound tower,
Once exchanged the glad sunlight
          For a cell, her bridal bower.
And yet she sprang of royal line,
          My child, like thine,
          And nursed the seed
          By her conceived
Of Zeus descending in a golden shower.
Strange are the ways of Fate, her power
Nor wealth, nor arms withstand, nor tower;
Nor brass-prowed ships, that breast the sea
          From Fate can flee.

(Ant. 1)
Thus Dryas’ child, the rash Edonian King,
For words of high disdain
Did Bacchus to a rocky dungeon bring,
To cool the madness of a fevered brain.
          His frenzy passed,
          He learnt at last
’Twas madness gibes against a god to fling.
For once he fain had quenched the Maenad’s fire;
And of the tuneful Nine provoked the ire.

(Str. 2)
By the Iron Rocks that guard the double main,
          On Bosporus’ lone strand,
Where stretcheth Salmydessus’ plain
          In the wild Thracian land,
There on his borders Ares witnessed
          The vengeance by a jealous step-dame ta’en
The gore that trickled from a spindle red,
          The sightless orbits of her step-sons twain.

(Ant. 2)
Wasting away they mourned their piteous doom,
The blasted issue of their mother’s womb.
But she her lineage could trace
          To great Erecththeus’ race;
Daughter of Boreas in her sire’s vast caves
          Reared, where the tempest raves,
Swift as his horses o’er the hills she sped;
A child of gods; yet she, my child, like thee,
               By Destiny
That knows not death nor age—she too was vanquished.
[Enter TEIRESIAS and BOY]

TEIRESIAS.
Princes of Thebes, two wayfarers as one,
Having betwixt us eyes for one, we are here.
The blind man cannot move without a guide.

CREON.
Why tidings, old Teiresias?

TEIRESIAS.
                              I will tell thee;
And when thou hearest thou must heed the seer.

CREON.
Thus far I ne’er have disobeyed thy rede.

TEIRESIAS.
So hast thou steered the ship of State aright.

CREON.
I know it, and I gladly own my debt.

TEIRESIAS.
Bethink thee that thou treadest once again
The razor edge of peril.

CREON.
                         What is this?
Thy words inspire a dread presentiment.

TEIRESIAS.
The divination of my arts shall tell.
Sitting upon my throne of augury,
As is my wont, where every fowl of heaven
Find harborage, upon mine ears was borne
A jargon strange of twitterings, hoots, and screams;
So knew I that each bird at the other tare
With bloody talons, for the whirr of wings
Could signify naught else. Perturbed in soul,
I straight essayed the sacrifice by fire
On blazing altars, but the God of Fire
Came not in flame, and from the thigh bones dripped
And sputtered in the ashes a foul ooze;
Gall-bladders cracked and spurted up: the fat
Melted and fell and left the thigh bones bare.
Such are the signs, taught by this lad, I read—
As I guide others, so the boy guides me—
The frustrate signs of oracles grown dumb.
O King, thy willful temper ails the State,
For all our shrines and altars are profaned
By what has filled the maw of dogs and crows,
The flesh of Oedipus’ unburied son.
Therefore the angry gods abominate
Our litanies and our burnt offerings;
Therefore no birds trill out a happy note,
Gorged with the carnival of human gore.
O ponder this, my son. To err is common
To all men, but the man who having erred
Hugs not his errors, but repents and seeks
The cure, is not a wastrel nor unwise.
No fool, the saw goes, like the obstinate fool.
Let death disarm thy vengeance. O forbear
To vex the dead. What glory wilt thou win
By slaying twice the slain? I mean thee well;
Counsel’s most welcome if I promise gain.

CREON.
Old man, ye all let fly at me your shafts
Like anchors at a target; yea, ye set
Your soothsayer on me. Peddlers are ye all
And I the merchandise ye buy and sell.
Go to, and make your profit where ye will,
Silver of Sardis change for gold of Ind;
Ye will not purchase this man’s burial,
Not though the winged ministers of Zeus
Should bear him in their talons to his throne;
Not e’en in awe of prodigy so dire
Would I permit his burial, for I know
No human soilure can assail the gods;
This too I know, Teiresias, dire’s the fall
Of craft and cunning when it tries to gloss
Foul treachery with fair words for filthy gain.

TEIRESIAS.
Alas! doth any know and lay to heart—

CREON.
Is this the prelude to some hackneyed saw?

TEIRESIAS.
How far good counsel is the best of goods?

CREON.
True, as unwisdom is the worst of ills.

TEIRESIAS.
Thou art infected with that ill thyself.

CREON.
I will not bandy insults with thee, seer.

TEIRESIAS.
And yet thou say’st my prophesies are frauds.

CREON.
Prophets are all a money-getting tribe.

TEIRESIAS.
And kings are all a lucre-loving race.

CREON.
Dost know at whom thou glancest, me thy lord?

TEIRESIAS.
Lord of the State and savior, thanks to me.

CREON.
Skilled prophet art thou, but to wrong inclined.

TEIRESIAS.
Take heed, thou wilt provoke me to reveal
The mystery deep hidden in my breast.

CREON.
Say on, but see it be not said for gain.

TEIRESIAS.
Such thou, methinks, till now hast judged my words.

CREON.
Be sure thou wilt not traffic on my wits.

TEIRESIAS.
Know then for sure, the coursers of the sun
Not many times shall run their race, before
Thou shalt have given the fruit of thine own loins
In quittance of thy murder, life for life;
For that thou hast entombed a living soul,
And sent below a denizen of earth,
And wronged the nether gods by leaving here
A corpse unlaved, unwept, unsepulchered.
Herein thou hast no part, nor e’en the gods
In heaven; and thou usurp’st a power not thine.
For this the avenging spirits of Heaven and Hell
Who dog the steps of sin are on thy trail:
What these have suffered thou shalt suffer too.
And now, consider whether bought by gold
I prophesy. For, yet a little while,
And sound of lamentation shall be heard,
Of men and women through thy desolate halls;
And all thy neighbor States are leagues to avenge
Their mangled warriors who have found a grave
I’ the maw of wolf or hound, or winged bird
That flying homewards taints their city’s air.
These are the shafts, that like a bowman I
Provoked to anger, loosen at thy breast,
Unerring, and their smart thou shalt not shun.
Boy, lead me home, that he may vent his spleen
On younger men, and learn to curb his tongue
With gentler manners than his present mood.
[Exit TEIRESIAS]

CHORUS.
My liege, that man hath gone, foretelling woe.
And, O believe me, since these grizzled locks
Were like the raven, never have I known
The prophet’s warning to the State to fail.

CREON.
I know it too, and it perplexes me.
To yield is grievous, but the obstinate soul
That fights with Fate, is smitten grievously.

CHORUS.
Son of Menoeceus, list to good advice.

CHORUS.
What should I do. Advise me. I will heed.

CHORUS.
Go, free the maiden from her rocky cell;
And for the unburied outlaw build a tomb.

CREON.
Is that your counsel? You would have me yield?

CHORUS.
Yea, king, this instant. Vengeance of the gods
Is swift to overtake the impenitent.

CREON.
Ah! what a wrench it is to sacrifice
My heart’s resolve; but Fate is ill to fight.

CHORUS.
Go, trust not others. Do it quick thyself.

CREON.
I go hot-foot. Bestir ye one and all,
My henchmen! Get ye axes! Speed away
To yonder eminence! I too will go,
For all my resolution this way sways.
’Twas I that bound, I too will set her free.
Almost I am persuaded it is best
To keep through life the law ordained of old.
[Exit CREON]

CHORUS.
(Str. 1)
Thou by many names adored,
          Child of Zeus the God of thunder,
          Of a Theban bride the wonder,
Fair Italia’s guardian lord;

In the deep-embosomed glades
          Of the Eleusinian Queen
Haunt of revelers, men and maids,
          Dionysus, thou art seen.

Where Ismenus rolls his waters,
          Where the Dragon’s teeth were sown,
Where the Bacchanals thy daughters
          Round thee roam,
          There thy home;
Thebes, O Bacchus, is thine own.

(Ant. 1)
Thee on the two-crested rock
          Lurid-flaming torches see;
Where Corisian maidens flock,
          Thee the springs of Castaly.

By Nysa’s bastion ivy-clad,
By shores with clustered vineyards glad,
There to thee the hymn rings out,
And through our streets we Thebans shout,
          All hall to thee
          Evoe, Evoe!

(Str. 2)
Oh, as thou lov’st this city best of all,
To thee, and to thy Mother levin-stricken,
In our dire need we call;
Thou see’st with what a plague our townsfolk sicken.
          Thy ready help we crave,
Whether adown Parnassian heights descending,
Or o’er the roaring straits thy swift was wending,
          Save us, O save!

(Ant. 2)
Brightest of all the orbs that breathe forth light,
     Authentic son of Zeus, immortal king,
Leader of all the voices of the night,
     Come, and thy train of Thyiads with thee bring,
          Thy maddened rout
Who dance before thee all night long, and shout,
          Thy handmaids we,
          Evoe, Evoe!

[Enter MESSENGER]

MESSENGER.
Attend all ye who dwell beside the halls
Of Cadmus and Amphion. No man’s life
As of one tenor would I praise or blame,
For Fortune with a constant ebb and rise
Casts down and raises high and low alike,
And none can read a mortal’s horoscope.
Take Creon; he, methought, if any man,
Was enviable. He had saved this land
Of Cadmus from our enemies and attained
A monarch’s powers and ruled the state supreme,
While a right noble issue crowned his bliss.
Now all is gone and wasted, for a life
Without life’s joys I count a living death.
You’ll tell me he has ample store of wealth,
The pomp and circumstance of kings; but if
These give no pleasure, all the rest I count
The shadow of a shade, nor would I weigh
His wealth and power ’gainst a dram of joy.

CHORUS.
What fresh woes bring’st thou to the royal house?

MESSENGER.
Both dead, and they who live deserve to die.

CHORUS.
Who is the slayer, who the victim? speak.

MESSENGER.
Haemon; his blood shed by no stranger hand.

CHORUS.
What mean ye? by his father’s or his own?

MESSENGER.
His own; in anger for his father’s crime.

CHORUS.
O prophet, what thou spakest comes to pass.

MESSENGER.
So stands the case; now ’tis for you to act.

CHORUS.
Lo! from the palace gates I see approaching
Creon’s unhappy wife, Eurydice.
Comes she by chance or learning her son’s fate?
[Enter EURYDICE]

EURYDICE
Ye men of Thebes, I overheard your talk.
As I passed out to offer up my prayer
To Pallas, and was drawing back the bar
To open wide the door, upon my ears
There broke a wail that told of household woe
Stricken with terror in my handmaids’ arms
I fell and fainted. But repeat your tale
To one not unacquaint with misery.

MESSENGER.
Dear mistress, I was there and will relate
The perfect truth, omitting not one word.
Why should we gloze and flatter, to be proved
Liars hereafter? Truth is ever best.
Well, in attendance on my liege, your lord,
I crossed the plain to its utmost margin, where
The corse of Polyneices, gnawn and mauled,
Was lying yet. We offered first a prayer
To Pluto and the goddess of cross-ways,
With contrite hearts, to deprecate their ire.
Then laved with lustral waves the mangled corse,
Laid it on fresh-lopped branches, lit a pyre,
And to his memory piled a mighty mound
Of mother earth. Then to the caverned rock,
The bridal chamber of the maid and Death,
We sped, about to enter. But a guard
Heard from that godless shrine a far shrill wail,
And ran back to our lord to tell the news.
But as he nearer drew a hollow sound
Of lamentation to the King was borne.
He groaned and uttered then this bitter plaint:
“Am I a prophet? miserable me!
Is this the saddest path I ever trod?
’Tis my son’s voice that calls me. On press on,
My henchmen, haste with double speed to the tomb
Where rocks down-torn have made a gap, look in
And tell me if in truth I recognize
The voice of Haemon or am heaven-deceived.”
So at the bidding of our distraught lord
We looked, and in the craven’s vaulted gloom
I saw the maiden lying strangled there,
A noose of linen twined about her neck;
And hard beside her, clasping her cold form,
Her lover lay bewailing his dead bride
Death-wedded, and his father’s cruelty.
When the King saw him, with a terrible groan
He moved towards him, crying, “O my son
What hast thou done? What ailed thee? What mischance
Has reft thee of thy reason? O come forth,
Come forth, my son; thy father supplicates.”
But the son glared at him with tiger eyes,
Spat in his face, and then, without a word,
Drew his two-hilted sword and smote, but missed
His father flying backwards. Then the boy,
Wroth with himself, poor wretch, incontinent
Fell on his sword and drove it through his side
Home, but yet breathing clasped in his lax arms
The maid, her pallid cheek incarnadined
With his expiring gasps. So there they lay
Two corpses, one in death. His marriage rites
Are consummated in the halls of Death:
A witness that of ills whate’er befall
Mortals’ unwisdom is the worst of all.
[Exit EURYDICE]

CHORUS.
What makest thou of this? The Queen has gone
Without a word importing good or ill.

MESSENGER.
I marvel too, but entertain good hope.
’Tis that she shrinks in public to lament
Her son’s sad ending, and in privacy
Would with her maidens mourn a private loss.
Trust me, she is discreet and will not err.

CHORUS.
I know not, but strained silence, so I deem,
Is no less ominous than excessive grief.

MESSENGER.
Well, let us to the house and solve our doubts,
Whether the tumult of her heart conceals
Some fell design. It may be thou art right:
Unnatural silence signifies no good.

CHORUS.
          Lo! the King himself appears.
          Evidence he with him bears
          ’Gainst himself (ah me! I quake
          ’Gainst a king such charge to make)
          But all must own,
          The guilt is his and his alone.

CREON.
(Str. 1)
          Woe for sin of minds perverse,
          Deadly fraught with mortal curse.
          Behold us slain and slayers, all akin.
          Woe for my counsel dire, conceived in sin.
               Alas, my son,
               Life scarce begun,
               Thou wast undone.
          The fault was mine, mine only, O my son!

CHORUS.
Too late thou seemest to perceive the truth.

CREON.
(Str. 2)
By sorrow schooled. Heavy the hand of God,
Thorny and rough the paths my feet have trod,
Humbled my pride, my pleasure turned to pain;
Poor mortals, how we labor all in vain!
[Enter SECOND MESSENGER]

SECOND MESSENGER.
Sorrows are thine, my lord, and more to come,
One lying at thy feet, another yet
More grievous waits thee, when thou comest home.

CREON.
What woe is lacking to my tale of woes?

SECOND MESSENGER.
Thy wife, the mother of thy dead son here,
Lies stricken by a fresh inflicted blow.

CREON.
(Ant. 1)
     How bottomless the pit!
          Does claim me too, O Death?
          What is this word he saith,
     This woeful messenger? Say, is it fit
     To slay anew a man already slain?
          Is Death at work again,
     Stroke upon stroke, first son, then mother slain?

CHORUS.
Look for thyself. She lies for all to view.

CREON.
(Ant. 2)
Alas! another added woe I see.
What more remains to crown my agony?
A minute past I clasped a lifeless son,
And now another victim Death hath won.
Unhappy mother, most unhappy son!

SECOND MESSENGER.
Beside the altar on a keen-edged sword
She fell and closed her eyes in night, but erst
She mourned for Megareus who nobly died
Long since, then for her son; with her last breath
She cursed thee, the slayer of her child.

CREON.
(Str. 3)
          I shudder with affright
O for a two-edged sword to slay outright
          A wretch like me,
          Made one with misery.

SECOND MESSENGER.
’Tis true that thou wert charged by the dead Queen
As author of both deaths, hers and her son’s.

CREON.
In what wise was her self-destruction wrought?

SECOND MESSENGER.
Hearing the loud lament above her son
With her own hand she stabbed herself to the heart.

CREON.
(Str. 4)
I am the guilty cause. I did the deed,
Thy murderer. Yea, I guilty plead.
My henchmen, lead me hence, away, away,
A cipher, less than nothing; no delay!

CHORUS.
Well said, if in disaster aught is well
His past endure demand the speediest cure.

CREON.
(Ant. 3)
          Come, Fate, a friend at need,
          Come with all speed!
          Come, my best friend,
          And speed my end!
          Away, away!
Let me not look upon another day!

CHORUS.
This for the morrow; to us are present needs
That they whom it concerns must take in hand.

CREON.
I join your prayer that echoes my desire.

CHORUS.
O pray not, prayers are idle; from the doom
Of fate for mortals refuge is there none.

CREON.
(Ant. 4)
Away with me, a worthless wretch who slew
Unwitting thee, my son, thy mother too.
Whither to turn I know now; every way
          Leads but astray,
And on my head I feel the heavy weight
          Of crushing Fate.

CHORUS.
     Of happiness the chiefest part
          Is a wise heart:
     And to defraud the gods in aught
          With peril’s fraught.
     Swelling words of high-flown might
     Mightily the gods do smite.
     Chastisement for errors past
     Wisdom brings to age at last.


Produced by Sigal Alon, Turgut Dincer, R. Cedron and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

OEDIPUS

KING OF THEBES

BY

SOPHOCLES

TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH RHYMING VERSE

 WITH EXPLANATORY NOTES BY

GILBERT MURRAY

LL.D., D.LITT., F.B.A.

REGIUS PROFESSOR OF GREEK IN THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD

FOURTEENTH THOUSAND

 LONDON: GEORGE ALLEN & UNWIN LTD.
 RUSKIN HOUSE 40 MUSEUM STREET, W.C.1

 _First published_      _February 1911_
 _Reprinted_            _January  1912_
     "                  _   "     1912_
     "                  _February 1912_
     "                  _July     1917_

PREFACE

If I have turned aside from Euripides for a moment and attempted a
translation of the great stage masterpiece of Sophocles, my excuse must
be the fascination of this play, which has thrown its spell on me as on
many other translators. Yet I may plead also that as a rule every
diligent student of these great works can add something to the
discoveries of his predecessors, and I think I have been able to bring
out a few new points in the old and much-studied _Oedipus_, chiefly
points connected with the dramatic technique and the religious
atmosphere.

Mythologists tell us that Oedipus was originally a daemon haunting Mount
Kithairon, and Jocasta a form of that Earth-Mother who, as Aeschylus
puts it, "bringeth all things to being, and when she hath reared them
receiveth again their seed into her body" (_Choephori_, 127: cf.
Crusius, _Beitraege z. Gr. Myth_, 21). That stage of the story lies very
far behind the consciousness of Sophocles. But there does cling about
both his hero and his heroine a great deal of very primitive atmosphere.
There are traces in Oedipus of the pre-hellenic Medicine King, the
_Basileus_ who is also a _Theos_, and can make rain or blue sky,
pestilence or fertility. This explains many things in the Priest's first
speech, in the attitude of the Chorus, and in Oedipus' own language
after the discovery. It partly explains the hostility of Apollo, who is
not a mere motiveless Destroyer but a true Olympian crushing his
Earth-born rival. And in the same way the peculiar royalty of Jocasta,
which makes Oedipus at times seem not the King but the Consort of the
Queen, brings her near to that class of consecrated queens described in
Dr. Frazer's _Lectures on the Kingship_, who are "honoured as no woman
now living on the earth."

The story itself, and the whole spirit in which Sophocles has treated
it, belong not to the fifth century but to that terrible and romantic
past from which the fifth century poets usually drew their material. The
atmosphere of brooding dread, the pollution, the curses; the "insane and
beastlike cruelty," as an ancient Greek commentator calls it, of
piercing the exposed child's feet in order to ensure its death and yet
avoid having actually murdered it (_Schol. Eur. Phoen._, 26); the whole
treatment of the parricide and incest, not as moral offences capable of
being rationally judged or even excused as unintentional, but as
monstrous and inhuman pollutions, the last limit of imaginable horror:
all these things take us back to dark regions of pre-classical and even
pre-homeric belief. We have no right to suppose that Sophocles thought
of the involuntary parricide and metrogamy as the people in his play do.
Indeed, considering the general tone of his contemporaries and friends,
we may safely assume that he did not. But at any rate he has allowed no
breath of later enlightenment to disturb the primaeval gloom of his
atmosphere.

Does this in any way make the tragedy insincere? I think not. We know
that people did feel and think about "pollution" in the way which
Sophocles represents; and if they so felt, then the tragedy was there.

       *       *       *       *       *

I think these considerations explain the remarkable absence from this
play of any criticism of life or any definite moral judgment. I know
that some commentators have found in it a "humble and unquestioning
piety," but I cannot help suspecting that what they saw was only a
reflection from their own pious and unquestioning minds. Man is indeed
shown as a "plaything of Gods," but of Gods strangely and
incomprehensibly malignant, whose ways there is no attempt to explain or
justify. The original story, indeed, may have had one of its roots in a
Theban "moral tale." Aelian (_Varia Historia_, 2, 7) tells us that the
exposure of a child was forbidden by Theban Law. The state of feeling
which produced this law, against the immensely strong conception of the
_patria potestas_, may also have produced a folklore story telling how a
boy once was exposed, in a peculiarly cruel way, by his wicked parents,
and how Heaven preserved him to take upon both of them a vengeance which
showed that the unnatural father had no longer a father's sanctity nor
the unnatural mother a mother's. But, as far as Sophocles is concerned,
if anything in the nature of a criticism of life has been admitted into
the play at all, it seems to be only a flash or two of that profound and
pessimistic arraignment of the ruling powers which in other plays also
opens at times like a sudden abyss across the smooth surface of his art.

There is not much philosophy in the _Oedipus_. There is not, in
comparison with other Greek plays, much pure poetry. What there is, is
drama; drama of amazing grandeur and power. In respect of plot no Greek
play comes near it. It contains no doubt a few points of unsophisticated
technique such as can be found in all ancient and nearly all modern
drama; for instance, the supposition that Oedipus has never inquired
into the death of his predecessor on the throne. But such flaws are
external, not essential. On the whole, I can only say that the work of
translation has made me feel even more strongly than before the
extraordinary grip and reality of the dialogue, the deftness of the
construction, and, except perhaps for a slight drop in the Creon scene,
the unbroken crescendo of tragedy from the opening to the close.

       *       *       *       *       *

Where plot-interest is as strong as it is in the _Oedipus_,
character-interest is apt to be comparatively weak. Yet in this play
every character is interesting, vital, and distinct. Oedipus himself is
selected by Aristotle as the most effective kind of tragic hero,
because, first, he has been great and glorious, and secondly he has not
been "pre-eminently virtuous or just." This is true in its way. Oedipus
is too passionate to be just; but he is at least noble in his
impetuosity, his devotion, and his absolute truthfulness. It is
important to realise that at the beginning of the play he is prepared
for an oracle commanding him to die for his people (pp. 6, 7). And he
never thinks of refusing that "task" any more than he tries to elude the
doom that actually comes, or to conceal any fact that tells against him.
If Oedipus had been an ordinary man the play would have been a very
different and a much poorer thing.

Jocasta is a wonderful study. Euripides might have brought her character
out more explicitly and more at length, but even he could not have made
her more living or more tragic, or represented more subtly in her
relation to Oedipus both the mother's protecting love and the mother's
authority. As for her "impiety," of which the old commentaries used to
speak with much disapproval, the essential fact in her life is that both
her innocence and her happiness have, as she believes, been poisoned by
the craft of priests. She and Laius both "believed a bad oracle": her
terror and her love for her husband made her consent to an infamous act
of cruelty to her own child, an act of which the thought sickens her
still, and about which she cannot, when she tries, speak the whole
truth. (See note on p. 42.) And after all her crime was for nothing! The
oracle proved to be a lie. Never again will she believe a priest.

As to Tiresias, I wish to ask forgiveness for an unintelligent criticism
made twelve years ago in my _Ancient Greek Literature_, p. 240. I
assumed then, what I fancy was a common assumption, that Tiresias was a
"sympathetic" prophet, compact of wisdom and sanctity and all the
qualities which beseem that calling; and I complained that he did not
consistently act as such. I was quite wrong. Tiresias is not anything so
insipid. He is a study of a real type, and a type which all the
tragedians knew. The character of the professional seer or "man of God"
has in the imagination of most ages fluctuated between two poles. At one
extreme are sanctity and superhuman wisdom; at the other fraud and
mental disease, self-worship aping humility and personal malignity in
the guise of obedience to God. There is a touch of all these qualities,
good and bad alike, in Tiresias. He seems to me a most life-like as well
as a most dramatic figure.

As to the Chorus, it generally plays a smaller part in Sophocles than in
Euripides and Aeschylus, and the _Oedipus_ forms no exception to that
rule. It seems to me that Sophocles was feeling his way towards a
technique which would have approached that of the New Comedy or even the
Elizabethan stage, and would perhaps have done without a Chorus
altogether. In Aeschylus Greek tragedy had been a thing of traditional
forms and clear-cut divisions; the religious ritual showed through, and
the visible gods and the disguised dancers were allowed their full
value. And Euripides in the matter of outward formalism went back to the
Aeschylean type and even beyond it: prologue, chorus, messenger, visible
god, all the traditional forms were left clear-cut and undisguised and
all developed to full effectiveness on separate and specific lines. But
Sophocles worked by blurring his structural outlines just as he blurs
the ends of his verses. In him the traditional divisions are all made
less distinct, all worked over in the direction of greater naturalness,
at any rate in externals. This was a very great gain, but of course some
price had to be paid for it. Part of the price was that Sophocles could
never attempt the tremendous choric effects which Euripides achieves in
such plays as the _Bacchae_ and the _Trojan Women_. His lyrics, great as
they sometimes are, move their wings less boldly. They seem somehow tied
to their particular place in the tragedy, and they have not quite the
strength to lift the whole drama bodily aloft with them.... At least
that is my feeling. But I realise that this may be only the complaint of
an unskilful translator, blaming his material for his own defects of
vision.

In general, both in lyrics and in dialogue, I believe I have allowed
myself rather less freedom than in translating Euripides. This is partly
because the writing of Euripides, being less business-like and more
penetrated by philosophic reflections and by subtleties of technique,
actually needs more thorough re-casting to express it at all adequately;
partly because there is in Sophocles, amid all his passion and all his
naturalness, a certain severe and classic reticence, which, though
impossible really to reproduce by any method, is less misrepresented by
occasional insufficiency than by habitual redundance.

I have asked pardon for an ill deed done twelve years ago. I should like
to end by speaking of a benefit older still, and express something of
the gratitude I feel to my old master, Francis Storr, whose teaching is
still vivid in my mind and who first opened my eyes to the grandeur of
the _Oedipus_.

G. M.

 CHARACTERS IN THE PLAY

 OEDIPUS, _supposed son of Polybus, King of Corinth; now elected King of
   Thebes._

 JOCASTA, _Queen of Thebes; widow of Laius, the late King, and now wife
   to Oedipus._

 CREON, _a Prince of Thebes, brother to Jocasta._

 TIRESIAS, _an old blind seer._

 PRIEST OF ZEUS.

 A STRANGER _from Corinth._

 A SHEPHERD _of King Laius._

 A MESSENGER _from the Palace._

 CHORUS of the Elders of Thebes.

 A Crowd of Suppliants, men, women, and children.

 The following do not appear in the play but are frequently mentioned:--

 LAIUS (_pronounced as three syllables, La-i-us_), _the last King of Thebes
   before Oedipus._

 CADMUS, _the founder of Thebes; son of Agenor, King of Sidon._

 POLYBUS AND MEROPE, _King and Queen of Corinth, supposed to be the
   father and mother of Oedipus._

 APOLLO, _the God specially presiding over the oracle of Delphi and the
   island Delos: he is also called_ PHOEBUS, _the pure;_ LOXIAS,
   _supposed to mean "He of the Crooked Words"; and_ LYKEIOS, _supposed
   to mean "Wolf-God." He is also the great Averter of Evil, and has
   names from the cries "I-e" (pronounced "Ee-ay") and "Paian," cries
   for healing or for the frightening away of evil influences._

 KITHAIRON, _a mass of wild mountain south-west of Thebes._

ARGUMENT

While Thebes was under the rule of LAIUS and JOCASTA there appeared a
strange and monstrous creature, "the riddling Sphinx," "the She-Wolf of
the woven song," who in some unexplained way sang riddles of death and
slew the people of Thebes. LAIUS went to ask aid of the oracle of
Delphi, but was slain mysteriously on the road. Soon afterwards there
came to Thebes a young Prince of Corinth, OEDIPUS, who had left his home
and was wandering. He faced the Sphinx and read her riddle, whereupon
she flung herself from her rock and died. The throne being vacant was
offered to OEDIPUS, and with it the hand of the Queen, JOCASTA.

Some ten or twelve years afterwards a pestilence has fallen on Thebes.
At this point the play begins.

_The date of the first production of the play is not known, but was
probably about the year 425 B.C._

OEDIPUS, KING OF THEBES

SCENE.--_Before the Palace of_ OEDIPUS _at Thebes. A crowd of suppliants
of all ages are waiting by the altar in front and on the steps of the
Palace; among them the_ PRIEST OF ZEUS. _As the Palace door opens and_
OEDIPUS _comes out all the suppliants with a cry move towards him in
attitudes of prayer, holding out their olive branches, and then become
still again as he speaks._

OEDIPUS.

  My children, fruit of Cadmus' ancient tree
  New springing, wherefore thus with bended knee
  Press ye upon us, laden all with wreaths
  And suppliant branches? And the city breathes
  Heavy with incense, heavy with dim prayer
  And shrieks to affright the Slayer.--Children, care
  For this so moves me, I have scorned withal
  Message or writing: seeing 'tis I ye call,
  'Tis I am come, world-honoured Oedipus.
    Old Man, do thou declare--the rest have thus
  Their champion--in what mood stand ye so still,
  In dread or sure hope? Know ye not, my will
  Is yours for aid 'gainst all? Stern were indeed
  The heart that felt not for so dire a need.

[Sidenote: vv. 15-39]

PRIEST.

  O Oedipus, who holdest in thy hand
  My city, thou canst see what ages stand
  At these thine altars; some whose little wing
  Scarce flieth yet, and some with long living
  O'erburdened; priests, as I of Zeus am priest,
  And chosen youths: and wailing hath not ceased
  Of thousands in the market-place, and by
  Athena's two-fold temples and the dry
  Ash of Ismenus' portent-breathing shore.
    For all our ship, thou see'st, is weak and sore
  Shaken with storms, and no more lighteneth
  Her head above the waves whose trough is death.
  She wasteth in the fruitless buds of earth,
  In parched herds and travail without birth
  Of dying women: yea, and midst of it
  A burning and a loathly god hath lit
  Sudden, and sweeps our land, this Plague of power;
  Till Cadmus' house grows empty, hour by hour,
  And Hell's house rich with steam of tears and blood.
    O King, not God indeed nor peer to God
  We deem thee, that we kneel before thine hearth,
  Children and old men, praying; but of earth
  A thing consummate by thy star confessed
  Thou walkest and by converse with the blest;
  Who came to Thebes so swift, and swept away
  The Sphinx's song, the tribute of dismay,
  That all were bowed beneath, and made us free.
  A stranger, thou, naught knowing more than we,
  Nor taught of any man, but by God's breath
  Filled, thou didst raise our life. So the world saith;
  So we say.

[Sidenote: vv. 40-69]

             Therefore now, O Lord and Chief,
  We come to thee again; we lay our grief
  On thy head, if thou find us not some aid.
  Perchance thou hast heard Gods talking in the shade
  Of night, or eke some man: to him that knows,
  Men say, each chance that falls, each wind that blows
  Hath life, when he seeks counsel. Up, O chief
  Of men, and lift thy city from its grief;
  Face thine own peril! All our land doth hold
  Thee still our saviour, for that help of old:
  Shall they that tell of thee hereafter tell
  "By him was Thebes raised up, and after fell!"
  Nay, lift us till we slip no more. Oh, let
  That bird of old that made us fortunate
  Wing back; be thou our Oedipus again.
  And let thy kingdom be a land of men,
  Not emptiness. Walls, towers, and ships, they all
  Are nothing with no men to keep the wall.

OEDIPUS.

  My poor, poor children! Surely long ago
  I have read your trouble. Stricken, well I know,
  Ye all are, stricken sore: yet verily
  Not one so stricken to the heart as I.
  Your grief, it cometh to each man apart
  For his own loss, none other's; but this heart
  For thee and me and all of us doth weep.
  Wherefore it is not to one sunk in sleep
  Ye come with waking. Many tears these days
  For your sake I have wept, and many ways
  Have wandered on the beating wings of thought.
  And, finding but one hope, that I have sought

[Sidenote: vv. 70-86]

  And followed. I have sent Menoikeus' son,
  Creon, my own wife's brother, forth alone
  To Apollo's House in Delphi, there to ask
  What word, what deed of mine, what bitter task,
  May save my city.
                    And the lapse of days
  Reckoned, I can but marvel what delays
  His journey. 'Tis beyond all thought that thus
  He comes not, beyond need. But when he does,
  Then call me false and traitor, if I flee
  Back from whatever task God sheweth me.

PRIEST.

  At point of time thou speakest. Mark the cheer
  Yonder. Is that not Creon drawing near?

    [_They all crowd to gaze where_ CREON _is
        approaching in the distance._

OEDIPUS.

  O Lord Apollo, help! And be the star
  That guides him joyous as his seemings are!

  PRIEST.

  Oh! surely joyous! How else should he bear
  That fruited laurel wreathed about his hair?

  OEDIPUS.

  We soon shall know.--'Tis not too far for one
  Clear-voiced.

    (_Shouting_) Ho, brother! Prince! Menoikeus' son,
  What message from the God?

[Sidenote: vv. 87-99]

CREON (from a distance).

                               Message of joy!

_Enter_ CREON

  I tell thee, what is now our worst annoy,
  If the right deed be done, shall turn to good.

    [_The crowd, which has been full of excited
        hope, falls to doubt and disappointment._

OEDIPUS.

  Nay, but what is the message? For my blood
  Runs neither hot nor cold for words like those.

CREON.

  Shall I speak now, with all these pressing close,
  Or pass within?--To me both ways are fair.

OEDIPUS.

  Speak forth to all! The grief that these men bear
  Is more than any fear for mine own death.

CREON.

  I speak then what I heard from God.--Thus saith
  Phoebus, our Lord and Seer, in clear command.
  An unclean thing there is, hid in our land,
  Eating the soil thereof: this ye shall cast
  Out, and not foster till all help be past.

OEDIPUS.

  How cast it out? What was the evil deed?

[Sidenote: vv. 100-113]

CREON.

  Hunt the men out from Thebes, or make them bleed
  Who slew. For blood it is that stirs to-day.

OEDIPUS.

  Who was the man they killed? Doth Phoebus say?

CREON.

  O King, there was of old King Laius
  In Thebes, ere thou didst come to pilot us.

OEDIPUS.

  I know: not that I ever saw his face.

CREON.

 'Twas he. And Loxias now bids us trace
  And smite the unknown workers of his fall.

OEDIPUS.

  Where in God's earth are they? Or how withal
  Find the blurred trail of such an ancient stain?

CREON.

  In Thebes, he said.--That which men seek amain
  They find. 'Tis things forgotten that go by.

OEDIPUS.

  And where did Laius meet them? Did he die
  In Thebes, or in the hills, or some far land?

[Sidenote: vv. 114-127]

CREON.

  To ask God's will in Delphi he had planned
  His journey. Started and returned no more.

OEDIPUS.

  And came there nothing back? No message, nor
  None of his company, that ye might hear?

CREON.

  They all were slain, save one man; blind with fear
  He came, remembering naught--or almost naught.

OEDIPUS.

  And what was that? One thing has often brought
  Others, could we but catch one little clue.

CREON.

 'Twas not one man, 'twas robbers--that he knew--
  Who barred the road and slew him: a great band.

OEDIPUS.

  Robbers?... What robber, save the work was planned
  By treason here, would dare a risk so plain?

CREON.

  So some men thought. But Laius lay slain,
  And none to avenge him in his evil day.

[Sidenote: vv. 128-148]

OEDIPUS.

  And what strange mischief, when your master lay
  Thus fallen, held you back from search and deed?

CREON.

  The dark-songed Sphinx was here. We had no heed
  Of distant sorrows, having death so near.

OEDIPUS.

  It falls on me then. I will search and clear
  This darkness.--Well hath Phoebus done, and thou
  Too, to recall that dead king, even now,
  And with you for the right I also stand,
  To obey the God and succour this dear land.
  Nor is it as for one that touches me
  Far off; 'tis for mine own sake I must see
  This sin cast out. Whoe'er it was that slew
  Laius, the same wild hand may seek me too:
  And caring thus for Laius, is but care
  For mine own blood.--Up! Leave this altar-stair,
  Children. Take from it every suppliant bough.
  Then call the folk of Thebes. Say, 'tis my vow
  To uphold them to the end. So God shall crown
  Our greatness, or for ever cast us down.

    [_He goes in to the Palace._

PRIEST.

  My children, rise.--The King most lovingly
  Hath promised all we came for. And may He

[Sidenote: vv. 149-161]

  Who sent this answer, Phoebus, come confessed
  Helper to Thebes, and strong to stay the pest.

    [_The suppliants gather up their boughs and
        stand at the side. The chorus of Theban
        elders enter._

CHORUS.

    [_They speak of the Oracle which they have not
        yet heard, and cry to_ APOLLO _by his
        special cry "I-e."_

    A Voice, a Voice, that is borne on the Holy Way!
  What art thou, O Heavenly One, O Word of the Houses of Gold?
  Thebes is bright with thee, and my heart it leapeth; yet is it cold,
        And my spirit faints as I pray.
            I-e! I-e!
  What task, O Affrighter of Evil, what task shall thy people essay?
        One new as our new-come affliction,
          Or an old toil returned with the years?
        Unveil thee, thou dread benediction,
          Hope's daughter and Fear's.

    [_They pray to_ ATHENA, ARTEMIS, _and_
        APOLLO.

    Zeus-Child that knowest not death, to thee I pray,
  O Pallas; next to thy Sister, who calleth Thebes her own,
  Artemis, named of Fair Voices, who sitteth her orbed throne
      In the throng of the market way:

[Sidenote: vv. 162-189]

            And I-e! I-e!
  Apollo, the Pure, the Far-smiter; O Three that keep evil away,
      If of old for our city's desire,
        When the death-cloud hung close to her brow,
      Ye have banished the wound and the fire,
        Oh! come to us now!

    [_They tell of the Pestilence._

  Wounds beyond telling; my people sick unto death;
    And where is the counsellor, where is the sword of thought?
  And Holy Earth in her increase perisheth:
    The child dies and the mother awaketh not.
            I-e! I-e!
  We have seen them, one on another, gone as a bird is gone,
    Souls that are flame; yea, higher,
    Swifter they pass than fire,
      To the rocks of the dying Sun.

    [_They end by a prayer to_ ATHENA,

  Their city wasteth unnumbered; their children lie
    Where death hath cast them, unpitied, unwept upon.
  The altars stand, as in seas of storm a high
    Rock standeth, and wives and mothers grey thereon
            Weep, weep and pray.
  Lo, joy-cries to fright the Destroyer; a flash in the dark they rise,
      Then die by the sobs overladen.
      Send help, O heaven-born Maiden,
        Let us look on the light of her eyes!

[Sidenote: vv. 190-217]

    [_To_ ZEUS, _that he drive out the Slayer,_

      And Ares, the abhorred
      Slayer, who bears no sword,
  But shrieking, wrapped in fire, stands over me,
      Make that he turn, yea, fly
      Broken, wind-wasted, high
  Down the vexed hollow of the Vaster Sea;
      Or back to his own Thrace,
      To harbour shelterless.
  Where Night hath spared, he bringeth end by day.
      Him, Him, O thou whose hand
      Beareth the lightning brand,
  O Father Zeus, now with thy thunder, slay and slay!

    [_To_ APOLLO, ARTEMIS, _and_ DIONYSUS.

      Where is thy gold-strung bow,
      O Wolf-god, where the flow
  Of living shafts unconquered, from all ills
      Our helpers? Where the white
      Spears of thy Sister's light,
  Far-flashing as she walks the wolf-wild hills?
      And thou, O Golden-crown,
      Theban and named our own,
  O Wine-gleam, Voice of Joy, for ever more
    Ringed with thy Maenads white,
    Bacchus, draw near and smite,
  Smite with thy glad-eyed flame the God whom Gods abhor.

    [_During the last lines_ OEDIPUS _has
        come out from the Palace._

OEDIPUS.

  Thou prayest: but my words if thou wilt hear
  And bow thee to their judgement, strength is near

[Sidenote: vv. 218-245]

  For help, and a great lightening of ill.
  Thereof I come to speak, a stranger still
  To all this tale, a stranger to the deed:
  (Else, save that I were clueless, little need
  Had I to cast my net so wide and far:)
  Howbeit, I, being now as all ye are,
  A Theban, to all Thebans high and low
  Do make proclaim: if any here doth know
  By what man's hand died Laius, your King,
  Labdacus' son, I charge him that he bring
  To me his knowledge. Let him feel no fear
  If on a townsman's body he must clear
  Our guilt: the man shall suffer no great ill,
  But pass from Thebes, and live where else he will.

    [_No answer._

  Is it some alien from an alien shore
  Ye know to have done the deed, screen him no more!
  Good guerdon waits you now and a King's love
  Hereafter.
             Hah! If still ye will not move
  But, fearing for yourselves or some near friend,
  Reject my charge, then hearken to what end
  Ye drive me.--If in this place men there be
  Who know and speak not, lo, I make decree
  That, while in Thebes I bear the diadem,
  No man shall greet, no man shall shelter them,
  Nor give them water in their thirst, nor share
  In sacrifice nor shrift nor dying prayer,
  But thrust them from our doors, the thing they hide
  Being this land's curse. Thus hath the God replied
  This day to me from Delphi, and my sword
  I draw thus for the dead and for God's word.

[Sidenote: vv. 246-273]

    And lastly for the murderer, be it one
  Hiding alone or more in unison,
  I speak on him this curse: even as his soul
  Is foul within him let his days be foul,
  And life unfriended grind him till he die.
  More: if he ever tread my hearth and I
  Know it, be every curse upon my head
  That I have spoke this day.
                              All I have said
  I charge ye strictly to fulfil and make
  Perfect, for my sake, for Apollo's sake,
  And this land's sake, deserted of her fruit
  And cast out from her gods. Nay, were all mute
  At Delphi, still 'twere strange to leave the thing
  Unfollowed, when a true man and a King
  Lay murdered. All should search. But I, as now
  Our fortunes fall--his crown is on my brow,
  His wife lies in my arms, and common fate,
  Had but his issue been more fortunate,
  Might well have joined our children--since this red
  Chance hath so stamped its heel on Laius' head,
  I am his champion left, and, as I would
  For mine own father, choose for ill or good
  This quest, to find the man who slew of yore
  Labdacus' son, the son of Polydore,
  Son of great Cadmus whom Agenor old
  Begat, of Thebes first master. And, behold,
  For them that aid me not, I pray no root
  Nor seed in earth may bear them corn nor fruit,
  No wife bear children, but this present curse
  Cleave to them close and other woes yet worse.
    Enough: ye other people of the land,

[Sidenote: vv. 274-289]

  Whose will is one with mine, may Justice stand
  Your helper, and all gods for evermore.

    [_The crowd disperses._

LEADER.

  O King, even while thy curse yet hovers o'er
  My head, I answer thee. I slew him not,
  Nor can I shew the slayer. But, God wot,
  If Phoebus sends this charge, let Phoebus read
  Its meaning and reveal who did the deed.

OEDIPUS.

  Aye, that were just, if of his grace he would
  Reveal it. How shall man compel his God?

LEADER.

  Second to that, methinks, 'twould help us most ...

OEDIPUS.

  Though it be third, speak! Nothing should be lost.

LEADER.

  To our High Seer on earth vision is given
  Most like to that High Phoebus hath in heaven.
  Ask of Tiresias: he could tell thee true.

OEDIPUS.

  That also have I thought for. Aye, and two
  Heralds have sent ere now. 'Twas Creon set
  Me on.--I marvel that he comes not yet.

[Sidenote: vv. 290-301]

LEADER.

  Our other clues are weak, old signs and far.

OEDIPUS.

  What signs? I needs must question all that are.

LEADER.

  Some travellers slew him, the tale used to be.

OEDIPUS.

  The tale, yes: but the witness, where is he?

LEADER.

  The man hath heard thy curses. If he knows
  The taste of fear, he will not long stay close.

OEDIPUS.

  He fear my words, who never feared the deed?

LEADER.

  Well, there is one shall find him.--See, they lead
  Hither our Lord Tiresias, in whose mind
  All truth is born, alone of human kind.

   [_Enter_ TIRESIAS _led by a young disciple. He is an old
      blind man in a prophet's robe, dark, unkempt and
      sinister in appearance._

OEDIPUS.

  Tiresias, thou whose mind divineth well
  All Truth, the spoken and the unspeakable,

[Sidenote: vv. 302-321]

  The things of heaven and them that walk the earth;
  Our city ... thou canst see, for all thy dearth
  Of outward eyes, what clouds are over her.
  In which, O gracious Lord, no minister
  Of help, no champion, can we find at all
  Save thee. For Phoebus--thou hast heard withal
  His message--to our envoy hath decreed
  One only way of help in this great need:
  To find and smite with death or banishing,
  Him who smote Laius, our ancient King.
  Oh, grudge us nothing! Question every cry
  Of birds, and all roads else of prophecy
  Thou knowest. Save our city: save thine own
  Greatness: save me; save all that yet doth groan
  Under the dead man's wrong! Lo, in thy hand
  We lay us. And, methinks, no work so grand
  Hath man yet compassed, as, with all he can
  Of chance or power, to help his fellow man.

TIRESIAS (_to himself_).

  Ah me!
  A fearful thing is knowledge, when to know
  Helpeth no end. I knew this long ago,
  But crushed it dead. Else had I never come.

OEDIPUS.

  What means this? Comest thou so deep in gloom?

TIRESIAS.

  Let me go back! Thy work shall weigh on thee
  The less, if thou consent, and mine on me.

[Sidenote: vv. 322-336]

OEDIPUS.

  Prophet, this is not lawful; nay, nor kind
  To Thebes, who feeds thee, thus to veil thy mind.

TIRESIAS.

  'Tis that I like not thy mind, nor the way
  It goeth. Therefore, lest I also stray....

    [_He moves to go off._ OEDIPUS _bars his road._

OEDIPUS.

  Thou shalt not, knowing, turn and leave us! See,
  We all implore thee, all, on bended knee.

TIRESIAS.

  All without light!--And never light shall shine
  On this dark evil that is mine ... and thine.

OEDIPUS.

  What wilt thou? Know and speak not? In my need
  Be false to me, and let thy city bleed?

TIRESIAS.

  I will not wound myself nor thee. Why seek
  To trap and question me? I will not speak.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou devil!

    [_Movement of_ LEADER _to check him._

               Nay; the wrath of any stone
  Would rise at him. It lies with thee to have done
  And speak. Is there no melting in thine eyes!

[Sidenote: vv. 337-351]

TIRESIAS.

  Naught lies with me! With thee, with thee there lies,
  I warrant, what thou ne'er hast seen nor guessed.

OEDIPUS (_to_ LEADER, _who tries to calm him._)

  How can I hear such talk?--he maketh jest
  Of the land's woe--and keep mine anger dumb?

TIRESIAS.

  Howe'er I hold it back, 'twill come, 'twill come.

OEDIPUS.

  The more shouldst thou declare it to thy King.

TIRESIAS.

  I speak no more. For thee, if passioning
  Doth comfort thee, on, passion to thy fill!

    [_He moves to go._

OEDIPUS.

  'Fore God, I am in wrath; and speak I will,
  Nor stint what I see clear. 'Twas thou, 'twas thou,
  Didst plan this murder; aye, and, save the blow,
  Wrought it.--I know thou art blind; else I could swear
  Thou, and thou only, art the murderer.

TIRESIAS (_returning_).

  So?--I command thee by thine own word's power,
  To stand accurst, and never from this hour

[Sidenote: vv. 352-363]

  Speak word to me, nor yet to these who ring
  Thy throne. Thou art thyself the unclean thing.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou front of brass, to fling out injury
  So wild! Dost think to bate me and go free?

TIRESIAS.

  I am free. The strong truth is in this heart.

OEDIPUS.

  What prompted thee? I swear 'twas not thine art.

TIRESIAS.

  'Twas thou. I spoke not, save for thy command.

OEDIPUS.

  Spoke what? What was it? Let me understand.

TIRESIAS.

  Dost tempt me? Were my words before not plain!

OEDIPUS.

  Scarce thy full meaning. Speak the words again.

TIRESIAS.

  Thou seek'st this man of blood: Thyself art he.

OEDIPUS.

  'Twill cost thee dear, twice to have stabbed at me!

[Sidenote: vv. 364-377]

TIRESIAS.

  Shall I say more, to see thee rage again?

OEDIPUS.

  Oh, take thy fill of speech: 'twill all be vain.

TIRESIAS.

  Thou livest with those near to thee in shame
  Most deadly, seeing not thyself nor them.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou think'st 'twill help thee, thus to speak and speak?

TIRESIAS.

  Surely, until the strength of Truth be weak.

OEDIPUS.

 'Tis weak to none save thee. Thou hast no part
  In truth, thou blind man, blind eyes, ears and heart.

TIRESIAS.

  More blind, more sad thy words of scorn, which none
  Who hears but shall cast back on thee: soon, soon.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou spawn of Night, not I nor any free
  And seeing man would hurt a thing like thee.

TIRESIAS.

  God is enough.--'Tis not my doom to fall
  By thee. He knows and shall accomplish all.

[Sidenote: vv. 378-402]

OEDIPUS (_with a flash of discovery_).

  Ha! Creon!--Is it his or thine, this plot?

TIRESIAS.

 'Tis thyself hates thee. Creon hates thee not.

OEDIPUS.

  O wealth and majesty, O conquering skill
  That carved life's rebel pathways to my will,
  What is your heart but bitterness, if now
  For this poor crown Thebes bound upon my brow,
  A gift, a thing I sought not--for this crown
  Creon the stern and true, Creon mine own
  Comrade, comes creeping in the dark to ban
  And slay me; sending first this magic-man
  And schemer, this false beggar-priest, whose eye
  Is bright for gold and blind for prophecy?
  Speak, thou. When hast thou ever shown thee strong
  For aid? The She-Wolf of the woven song
  Came, and thy art could find no word, no breath,
  To save thy people from her riddling death.
  'Twas scarce a secret, that, for common men
  To unravel. There was need of Seer-craft then.
  And thou hadst none to show. No fowl, no flame,
  No God revealed it thee. 'Twas I that came,
  Rude Oedipus, unlearned in wizard's lore,
  And read her secret, and she spoke no more.
  Whom now thou thinkest to hunt out, and stand
  Foremost in honour at King Creon's hand.
  I think ye will be sorry, thou and he
  That shares thy sin-hunt. Thou dost look to me

[Sidenote: vv. 403-424]

  An old man; else, I swear this day should bring
  On thee the death thou plottest for thy King.

LEADER.

  Lord Oedipus, these be but words of wrath,
  All thou hast spoke and all the Prophet hath.
  Which skills not. We must join, for ill or well,
  In search how best to obey God's oracle.

TIRESIAS.

  King though thou art, thou needs must bear the right
  Of equal answer. Even in me is might
  For thus much, seeing I live no thrall of thine,
  But Lord Apollo's; neither do I sign
  Where Creon bids me.
                          I am blind, and thou
  Hast mocked my blindness. Yea, I will speak now.
  Eyes hast thou, but thy deeds thou canst not see
  Nor where thou art, nor what things dwell with thee.
  Whence art thou born? Thou know'st not; and unknown,
  On quick and dead, on all that were thine own,
  Thou hast wrought hate. For that across thy path
  Rising, a mother's and a father's wrath,
  Two-handed, shod with fire, from the haunts of men
  Shall scourge thee, in thine eyes now light, but then
  Darkness. Aye, shriek! What harbour of the sea,
  What wild Kithairon shall not cry to thee
  In answer, when thou hear'st what bridal song,
  What wind among the torches, bore thy strong
  Sail to its haven, not of peace but blood.
  Yea, ill things multitude on multitude

[Sidenote: vv. 425-438]

  Thou seest not, which so soon shall lay thee low,
  Low as thyself, low as thy children.--Go,
  Heap scorn on Creon and my lips withal:
  For this I tell thee, never was there fall
  Of pride, nor shall be, like to thine this day.

OEDIPUS.

  To brook such words from this thing? Out, I say!
  Out to perdition! Aye, and quick, before ...

  [_The_ LEADER _restrains him_.

  Enough then!--Turn and get thee from my door.

TIRESIAS.

  I had not come hadst thou not called me here.

OEDIPUS.

  I knew thee not so dark a fool. I swear
 'Twere long before I called thee, had I known.

TIRESIAS.

  Fool, say'st thou? Am I truly such an one?
  The two who gave thee birth, they held me wise.

OEDIPUS.

  Birth?... Stop! Who were they? Speak thy prophecies.

TIRESIAS.

  This day shall give thee birth and blot thee out.

[Sidenote: vv. 439-455]

OEDIPUS.

  Oh, riddles everywhere and words of doubt!

TIRESIAS.

  Aye. Thou wast their best reader long ago.

OEDIPUS.

  Laugh on. I swear thou still shalt find me so.

TIRESIAS.

  That makes thy pride and thy calamity.

OEDIPUS.

  I have saved this land, and care not if I die.

TIRESIAS.

  Then I will go.--Give me thine arm, my child.

OEDIPUS.

  Aye, help him quick.--To see him there makes wild
  My heart. Once gone, he will not vex me more.

TIRESIAS (_turning again as he goes_).

 I fear thee not; nor will I go before
 That word be spoken which I came to speak.
 How canst thou ever touch me?--Thou dost seek
 With threats and loud proclaim the man whose hand
 Slew Laius. Lo, I tell thee, he doth stand
 Here. He is called a stranger, but these days
 Shall prove him Theban true, nor shall he praise
 His birthright. Blind, who once had seeing eyes,
 Beggared, who once had riches, in strange guise,

[Sidenote: vv. 456-478]

  His staff groping before him, he shall crawl
  O'er unknown earth, and voices round him call:
  "Behold the brother-father of his own
  Children, the seed, the sower and the sown,
  Shame to his mother's blood, and to his sire
  Son, murderer, incest-worker."
                                  Cool thine ire
  With thought of these, and if thou find that aught
  Faileth, then hold my craft a thing of naught.

    [_He goes out._ OEDIPUS _returns to the Palace._

CHORUS.

    [_They sing of the unknown murderer,_

  What man, what man is he whom the voice of Delphi's cell
  Hath named of the bloody hand, of the deed no tongue may tell?
          Let him fly, fly, for his need
          Hath found him; oh, where is the speed
  That flew with the winds of old, the team of North-Wind's spell?
    For feet there be that follow. Yea, thunder-shod
    And girt with fire he cometh, the Child of God;
  And with him are they that fail not, the Sin-Hounds risen from Hell.

  For the mountain hath spoken, a voice hath flashed from amid the snows,
  That the wrath of the world go seek for the man whom no man knows.
          Is he fled to the wild forest,
          To caves where the eagles nest?
  O angry bull of the rocks, cast out from thy herd-fellows!

[Sidenote: vv. 479-512]

    Rage in his heart, and rage across his way,
    He toileth ever to beat from his ears away
  The word that floateth about him, living, where'er he goes.

    [_And of the Prophet's strange accusation._

  Yet strange, passing strange, the wise augur and his lore;
    And my heart it cannot speak; I deny not nor assent,
  But float, float in wonder at things after and before;
    Did there lie between their houses some old wrath unspent,
  That Corinth against Cadmus should do murder by the way?
    No tale thereof they tell, nor no sign thereof they show;
  Who dares to rise for vengeance and cast Oedipus away
      For a dark, dark death long ago!

  Ah, Zeus knows, and Apollo, what is dark to mortal eyes;
    They are Gods. But a prophet, hath he vision more than mine?
  Who hath seen? Who can answer? There be wise men and unwise.
    I will wait, I will wait, for the proving of the sign.
  But I list not nor hearken when they speak Oedipus ill.
    We saw his face of yore, when the riddling singer passed;
  And we knew him that he loved us, and we saw him great in skill.
      Oh, my heart shall uphold him to the last!

[Sidenote: vv. 513-531]

_Enter_ CREON.

CREON.

  Good brother citizens, a frantic word
  I hear is spoken by our chosen Lord
  Oedipus against me, and here am come
  Indignant. If he dreams, 'mid all this doom
  That weighs upon us, he hath had from me
  Or deed or lightest thought of injury, ...
  'Fore God, I have no care to see the sun
  Longer with such a groaning name. Not one
  Wound is it, but a multitude, if now
  All Thebes must hold me guilty--aye, and thou
  And all who loved me--of a deed so foul.

LEADER.

  If words were spoken, it was scarce the soul
  That spoke them: 'twas some sudden burst of wrath.

CREON.

  The charge was made, then, that Tiresias hath
  Made answer false, and that I bribed him, I?

LEADER.

  It was--perchance for jest. I know not why.

CREON.

  His heart beat true, his eyes looked steadily
  And fell not, laying such a charge on me?

LEADER.

  I know not. I have no eyes for the thing
  My masters do.--But see, here comes the King.

[Sidenote: vv. 532-550]

_Enter_ OEDIPUS _from the Palace._

OEDIPUS.

  How now, assassin? Walking at my gate
  With eye undimmed, thou plotter demonstrate
  Against this life, and robber of my crown?
  God help thee! Me! What was it set me down
  Thy butt? So dull a brain hast found in me
  Aforetime, such a faint heart, not to see
  Thy work betimes, or seeing not to smite?
  Art thou not rash, this once! It needeth might
  Of friends, it needeth gold, to make a throne
  Thy quarry; and I fear me thou hast none.

CREON.

  One thing alone I ask thee. Let me speak
  As thou hast spoken; then, with knowledge, wreak
  Thy judgement. I accept it without fear.

OEDIPUS.

  More skill hast thou to speak than I to hear
  Thee. There is peril found in thee and hate.

CREON.

  That one thing let me answer ere too late.

OEDIPUS.

  One thing be sure of, that thy plots are known.

CREON.

  The man who thinks that bitter pride alone
  Can guide him, without thought--his mind is sick.

[Sidenote: vv. 551-562]

OEDIPUS.

  Who thinks to slay his brother with a trick
  And suffer not himself, his eyes are blind.

CREON.

  Thy words are more than just. But say what kind
  Of wrong thou fanciest I have done thee. Speak.

OEDIPUS.

  Didst urge me, or didst urge me not, to seek
  A counsel from that man of prophecies?

CREON.

  So judged I then, nor now judge otherwise.

OEDIPUS.

   [_Suddenly seeing a mode of attack._

  How many years have passed since Laius ...

    [_The words seem to choke him._

CREON.

  Speak on. I cannot understand thee thus.

OEDIPUS.

    [_With an effort._

  Passed in that bloody tempest from men's sight?

CREON.

  Long years and old. I scarce can tell them right.

OEDIPUS.

  At that time was this seer in Thebes, or how?

[Sidenote: vv. 563-573]

CREON.

  He was; most wise and honoured, even as now.

OEDIPUS.

  At that time did he ever speak my name?

CREON.

  No. To mine ear at least it never came.

OEDIPUS.

  Held you no search for those who slew your King?

CREON.

  For sure we did, but found not anything.

OEDIPUS.

  How came the all-knowing seer to leave it so?

CREON.

  Ask him! I speak not where I cannot know.

OEDIPUS.

  One thing thou canst, with knowledge full, I wot.

CREON.

  Speak it. If true, I will conceal it not.

OEDIPUS.

  This: that until he talked with thee, the seer
  Ne'er spoke of me as Laius' murderer.

[Sidenote: vv. 574-589]

CREON.

  I know not if he hath so spoken now.
  I heard him not.--But let me ask and thou
  Answer me true, as I have answered thee.

OEDIPUS.

  Ask, ask! Thou shalt no murder find in me.

CREON.

  My sister is thy wife this many a day?

OEDIPUS.

  That charge it is not in me to gainsay.

CREON.

  Thou reignest, giving equal reign to her?

OEDIPUS.

  Always to her desire I minister.

CREON.

  Were we not all as one, she thou and I?

OEDIPUS.

  Yes, thou false friend! There lies thy treachery.

CREON.

  Not so! Nay, do but follow me and scan
  Thine own charge close. Think'st thou that any man
  Would rather rule and be afraid than rule
  And sleep untroubled? Nay, where lives the fool--

[Sidenote: vv. 590-613]

  I know them not nor am I one of them--
  Who careth more to bear a monarch's name
  Than do a monarch's deeds? As now I stand
  All my desire I compass at thy hand.
  Were I the King, full half my deeds were done
  To obey the will of others, not mine own.
  Were that as sweet, when all the tale were told,
  As this calm griefless princedom that I hold
  And silent power? Am I so blind of brain
  That ease with glory tires me, and I fain
  Must change them? All men now give me God-speed,
  All smile to greet me. If a man hath need
  Of thee, 'tis me he calleth to the gate,
  As knowing that on my word hangs the fate
  Of half he craves. Is life like mine a thing
  To cast aside and plot to be a King?
  Doth a sane man turn villain in an hour?
    For me, I never lusted thus for power
  Nor bore with any man who turned such lust
  To doing.--But enough. I claim but just
  Question. Go first to Pytho; find if well
  And true I did report God's oracle.
  Next, seek in Thebes for any plots entwined
  Between this seer and me; which if ye find,
  Then seize and strike me dead. Myself that day
  Will sit with thee as judge and bid thee Slay!
  But damn me not on one man's guess.--'Tis all
  Unjust: to call a traitor true, to call
  A true man traitor with no cause nor end!
  And this I tell thee. He who plucks a friend
  Out from his heart hath lost a treasured thing
  Dear as his own dear life.
                               But Time shall bring

[Sidenote: vv. 614-626]

  Truth back. 'Tis Time alone can make men know
  What hearts are true; the false one day can show.

LEADER.

  To one that fears to fall his words are wise,
  O King; in thought the swift win not the prize.

OEDIPUS.

  When he is swift who steals against my reign
  With plots, then swift am I to plot again.
  Wait patient, and his work shall have prevailed
  Before I move, and mine for ever failed.

CREON.

  How then? To banish me is thy intent?

OEDIPUS.

  Death is the doom I choose, not banishment.

CREON.

  Wilt never soften, never trust thy friend?

OEDIPUS.

  First I would see how traitors meet their end.

CREON.

  I see thou wilt not think.

OEDIPUS.

                            I think to save
  My life.

[Sidenote: vv. 627-633]

CREON.

            Think, too, of mine.

OEDIPUS.

                            Thine, thou born knave!

CREON.

  Yes.... What, if thou art blind in everything?

OEDIPUS.

  The King must be obeyed.

CREON.

                             Not if the King
  Does evil.

OEDIPUS.

              To your King! Ho, Thebes, mine own!

CREON.

  Thebes is my country, not the King's alone.

    [OEDIPUS _has drawn his sword; the Chorus
       show signs of breaking into two parties to
       fight for_ OEDIPUS _or for_ CREON, _when
       the door opens and_ JOCASTA _appears on the
       steps._

LEADER.

   Stay, Princes, stay! See, on the Castle stair
   The Queen Jocasta standeth. Show to her
   Your strife. She will assuage it as is well.

[Sidenote: vv. 634-648]

JOCASTA.

  Vain men, what would ye with this angry swell
  Of words heart-blinded? Is there in your eyes
  No pity, thus, when all our city lies
  Bleeding, to ply your privy hates?... Alack,
  My lord, come in!--Thou, Creon, get thee back
  To thine own house. And stir not to such stress
  Of peril griefs that are but nothingness.

CREON.

  Sister, it is the pleasure of thy lord,
  Our King, to do me deadly wrong. His word
  Is passed on me: 'tis banishment or death.

OEDIPUS.

  I found him ... I deny not what he saith,
  My Queen ... with craft and malice practising
  Against my life.

CREON.

                   Ye Gods, if such a thing
  Hath once been in my thoughts, may I no more
  See any health on earth, but, festered o'er
  With curses, die!--Have done. There is mine oath.

JOCASTA.

  In God's name, Oedipus, believe him, both
  For my sake, and for these whose hearts are all
  Thine own, and for my brother's oath withal.

[Sidenote: vv. 649-664]

LEADER. [_Strophe._

  Yield; consent; think! My Lord, I conjure thee!

OEDIPUS.

           What would ye have me do?

LEADER.

  Reject not one who never failed his troth
  Of old and now is strong in his great oath.

OEDIPUS.

  Dost know what this prayer means?

LEADER.

                                   Yea, verily!

OEDIPUS.

           Say then the meaning true.

LEADER.

      I would not have thee cast to infamy
           Of guilt, where none is proved,
  One who hath sworn and whom thou once hast loved.

OEDIPUS.

 'Tis that ye seek? For me, then ... understand
  Well ... ye seek death or exile from the land.

LEADER.

  No, by the God of Gods, the all-seeing Sun!
    May he desert me here, and every friend
  With him, to death and utterest malison,
    If e'er my heart could dream of such an end!

[Sidenote: vv. 665-680]

          But it bleedeth, it bleedeth sore,
            In a land half slain,
          If we join to the griefs of yore
            Griefs of you twain.

OEDIPUS.

  Oh, let him go, though it be utterly
  My death, or flight from Thebes in beggary.
  'Tis thy sad lips, not his, that make me know
  Pity. Him I shall hate, where'er he go.

CREON.

  I see thy mercy moving full of hate
  And slow; thy wrath came swift and desperate.
  Methinks, of all the pain that such a heart
  Spreadeth, itself doth bear the bitterest part.

OEDIPUS.

  Oh, leave me and begone!

CREON.

                          I go, wronged sore
  By thee. These friends will trust me as before.

    [CREON _goes._ OEDIPUS _stands apart lost in
       trouble of mind._

LEADER.   [_Antistrophe._

  Queen, wilt thou lead him to his house again?

JOCASTA.

              I will, when I have heard.

[Sidenote: vv. 681-696]

LEADER.

  There fell some word, some blind imagining
  Between them. Things known foolish yet can sting.

JOCASTA.

  From both the twain it rose?

LEADER.

                                 From both the twain.

JOCASTA.

           Aye, and what was the word?

LEADER.

    Surely there is enough of evil stirred,
          And Thebes heaves on the swell
  Of storm.--Oh, leave this lying where it fell.

OEDIPUS.

  So be it, thou wise counsellor! Make slight
  My wrong, and blunt my purpose ere it smite.

LEADER.

  O King, not once I have answered. Visibly
    Mad were I, lost to all wise usages,
  To seek to cast thee from us. 'Twas from thee
    We saw of old blue sky and summer seas,
      When Thebes in the storm and rain
        Reeled, like to die.
      Oh, if thou canst, again
        Blue sky, blue sky...!

[Sidenote: vv. 697-713]

JOCASTA.

  Husband, in God's name, say what hath ensued
  Of ill, that thou shouldst seek so dire a feud.

OEDIPUS.

  I will, wife. I have more regard for thee
  Than these.--Thy brother plots to murder me.

JOCASTA.

  Speak on. Make all thy charge. Only be clear.

OEDIPUS.

  He says that I am Laius' murderer.

JOCASTA.

  Says it himself? Says he hath witnesses?

OEDIPUS.

  Nay, of himself he ventures nothing. 'Tis
  This priest, this hellish seer, makes all the tale.

JOCASTA.

  The seer?--Then tear thy terrors like a veil
  And take free breath. A seer? No human thing
  Born on the earth hath power for conjuring
  Truth from the dark of God.
                               Come, I will tell
  An old tale. There came once an oracle
  To Laius: I say not from the God
  Himself, but from the priests and seers who trod
  His sanctuary: if ever son were bred
  From him and me, by that son's hand, it said,

[Sidenote: vv. 714-732]

  Laius must die. And he, the tale yet stays
  Among us, at the crossing of three ways
  Was slain by robbers, strangers. And my son--
  God's mercy!--scarcely the third day was gone
  When Laius took, and by another's hand
  Out on the desert mountain, where the land
  Is rock, cast him to die. Through both his feet
  A blade of iron they drove. Thus did we cheat
  Apollo of his will. My child could slay
  No father, and the King could cast away
  The fear that dogged him, by his child to die
  Murdered.--Behold the fruits of prophecy!
  Which heed not thou! God needs not that a seer
  Help him, when he would make his dark things clear.

OEDIPUS.

  Woman, what turmoil hath thy story wrought
  Within me! What up-stirring of old thought!

JOCASTA.

  What thought? It turns thee like a frightened thing.

OEDIPUS.

 'Twas at the crossing of three ways this King
  Was murdered? So I heard or so I thought.

JOCASTA.

  That was the tale. It is not yet forgot.

OEDIPUS.

  The crossing of three ways! And in what land?

[Sidenote: vv. 733-746]

JOCASTA.

  Phokis 'tis called. A road on either hand
  From Delphi comes and Daulia, in a glen.

OEDIPUS.

How many years and months have passed since then?

JOCASTA.

 'Twas but a little time before proclaim
  Was made of thee for king, the tidings came.

OEDIPUS.

  My God, what hast thou willed to do with me?

JOCASTA.

  Oedipus, speak! What is it troubles thee?

OEDIPUS.

  Ask me not yet. But say, what build, what height
  Had Laius? Rode he full of youth and might?

JOCASTA.

  Tall, with the white new gleaming on his brow
  He walked. In shape just such a man as thou.

OEDIPUS.

  God help me! I much fear that I have wrought
  A curse on mine own head, and knew it not.

JOCASTA.

  How sayst thou? O my King, I look on thee
  And tremble.

[Sidenote: vv. 747-760]

OEDIPUS (_to himself_).

            Horror, if the blind can see!
  Answer but one thing and 'twill all be clear.

JOCASTA.

  Speak. I will answer though I shake with fear.

OEDIPUS.

  Went he with scant array, or a great band
  Of armed followers, like a lord of land?

JOCASTA.

  Four men were with him, one a herald; one
  Chariot there was, where Laius rode alone.

OEDIPUS.

  Aye me! Tis clear now.
                         Woman, who could bring
  To Thebes the story of that manslaying?

JOCASTA.

  A house-thrall, the one man they failed to slay.

OEDIPUS.

  The one man...? Is he in the house to-day?

JOCASTA.

  Indeed no. When he came that day, and found
  Thee on the throne where once sat Laius crowned,
  He took my hand and prayed me earnestly

[Sidenote: vv. 761-779]

  To send him to the mountain heights, to be
  A herdsman, far from any sight or call
  Of Thebes. And there I sent him. 'Twas a thrall
  Good-hearted, worthy a far greater boon.

OEDIPUS.

  Canst find him? I would see this herd, and soon.

JOCASTA.

 'Tis easy. But what wouldst thou with the herd?

OEDIPUS.

  I fear mine own voice, lest it spoke a word
  Too much; whereof this man must tell me true.

JOCASTA.

  The man shall come.--My lord, methinks I too
  Should know what fear doth work thee this despite.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou shalt. When I am tossed to such an height
  Of dark foreboding, woman, when my mind
  Faceth such straits as these, where should I find
  A mightier love than thine?
                               My father--thus
  I tell thee the whole tale--was Polybus,
  In Corinth King; my mother Merope
  Of Dorian line. And I was held to be
  The proudest in Corinthia, till one day
  A thing befell: strange was it, but no way
  Meet for such wonder and such rage as mine.
  A feast it was, and some one flushed with wine

[Sidenote: vv. 780-807]

  Cried out at me that I was no true son
  Of Polybus. Oh, I was wroth! That one
  Day I kept silence, but the morrow morn
  I sought my parents, told that tale of scorn
  And claimed the truth; and they rose in their pride
  And smote the mocker.... Aye, they satisfied
  All my desire; yet still the cavil gnawed
  My heart, and still the story crept abroad.
    At last I rose--my father knew not, nor
  My mother--and went forth to Pytho's floor
  To ask. And God in that for which I came
  Rejected me, but round me, like a flame,
  His voice flashed other answers, things of woe,
  Terror, and desolation. I must know
  My mother's body and beget thereon
  A race no mortal eye durst look upon,
  And spill in murder mine own father's blood.
    I heard, and, hearing, straight from where I stood,
  No landmark but the stars to light my way,
  Fled, fled from the dark south where Corinth lay,
  To lands far off, where never I might see
  My doom of scorn fulfilled. On bitterly
  I strode, and reached the region where, so saith
  Thy tale, that King of Thebes was struck to death....
  Wife, I will tell thee true. As one in daze
  I walked, till, at the crossing of three ways,
  A herald, like thy tale, and o'er his head
  A man behind strong horses charioted
  Met me. And both would turn me from the path,
  He and a thrall in front. And I in wrath
  Smote him that pushed me--'twas a groom who led
  The horses. Not a word the master said,

[Sidenote: vv. 808-828]

  But watched, and as I passed him on the road
  Down on my head his iron-branched goad
  Stabbed. But, by heaven, he rued it! In a flash
  I swung my staff and saw the old man crash
  Back from his car in blood.... Then all of them
  I slew.
           Oh, if that man's unspoken name
  Had aught of Laius in him, in God's eye
  What man doth move more miserable than I,
  More dogged by the hate of heaven! No man, kin
  Nor stranger, any more may take me in;
  No man may greet me with a word, but all
  Cast me from out their houses. And withal
  'Twas mine own self that laid upon my life
  These curses.--And I hold the dead man's wife
  In these polluting arms that spilt his soul....
  Am I a thing born evil? Am I foul
  In every vein? Thebes now doth banish me,
  And never in this exile must I see
  Mine ancient folk of Corinth, never tread
  The land that bore me; else my mother's bed
  Shall be defiled, and Polybus, my good
  Father, who loved me well, be rolled in blood.
  If one should dream that such a world began
  In some slow devil's heart, that hated man,
  Who should deny him?--God, as thou art clean,
  Suffer not this, oh, suffer not this sin
  To be, that e'er I look on such a day!
  Out of all vision of mankind away
  To darkness let me fall ere such a fate
  Touch me, so unclean and so desolate!

[Sidenote: vv. 829-850]

LEADER.

  I tremble too, O King; but till thou hear
  From him who saw, oh, let hope conquer fear.

OEDIPUS.

  One shred of hope I still have, and therefore
  Will wait the herdsman's coming. 'Tis no more.

JOCASTA.

  He shall come. But what further dost thou seek?

OEDIPUS.

  This. If we mark him close and find him speak
  As thou hast, then I am lifted from my dread.

JOCASTA.

  What mean'st thou? Was there something that I said...?

OEDIPUS.

  Thou said'st he spoke of robbers, a great band,
  That slaughtered Laius' men. If still he stand
  To the same tale, the guilt comes not my way.
  One cannot be a band. But if he say
  One lonely loin-girt man, then visibly
  This is God's finger pointing toward me.

JOCASTA.

  Be sure of this. He told the story so
  When first he came. All they that heard him know,

[Sidenote: vv. 850-870]

  Not only I. He cannot change again
  Now. And if change he should, O Lord of men,
  No change of his can make the prophecy
  Of Laius' death fall true. He was to die
  Slain by my son. So Loxias spake.... My son!
  He slew no man, that poor deserted one
  That died.... And I will no more turn mine eyes
  This way nor that for all their prophecies.

OEDIPUS.

  Woman, thou counsellest well. Yet let it not
  Escape thee. Send and have the herdsman brought.

JOCASTA.

  That will I.--Come. Thou knowest I ne'er would do
  Nor think of aught, save thou wouldst have it so.

    [JOCASTA _and_ OEDIPUS _go together into the Palace._

CHORUS.

    [_They pray to be free from such great sins as
     they have just heard spoken of._

    [_Strophe._

  Toward God's great mysteries, oh, let me move
      Unstained till I die
  In speech or doing; for the Laws thereof
  Are holy, walkers upon ways above,
      Born in the far blue sky;

  Their father is Olympus uncreate;
      No man hath made nor told
  Their being; neither shall Oblivion set

[Sidenote: vv. 870-893]

  Sleep on their eyes, for in them lives a great
    Spirit and grows not old. [_Antistrophe._

   [_They wonder if these sins be all due to pride
      and if_ CREON _has guilty ambitions;_

  'Tis Pride that breeds the tyrant; drunken deep
      With perilous things is she,
  Which bring not peace: up, reeling, steep on steep
  She climbs, till lo, the rock-edge, and the leap
      To that which needs must be,

  The land where the strong foot is no more strong!
      Yet is there surely Pride
  That saves a city; God preserve it long!
  I judge not. Only through all maze of wrong
      Be God, not man, my guide. [_Strophe._

    [_Or if_ TIRESIAS _can really be a lying prophet with
        no fear of God; they feel that all faith in
        oracles and the things of God is shaken._

  Is there a priest who moves amid the altars
      Ruthless in deed and word,
  Fears not the presence of his god, nor falters
      Lest Right at last be heard?
  If such there be, oh, let some doom be given
      Meet for his ill-starred pride,
  Who will not gain his gain where Justice is,
  Who will not hold his lips from blasphemies,
  Who hurls rash hands amid the things of heaven
      From man's touch sanctified.

    In a world where such things be,
      What spirit hath shield or lance

[Sidenote: vv. 893-916]

        To ward him secretly
          From the arrow that slays askance?
        If honour to such things be,
          Why should I dance my dance?

    [_Antistrophe._

  I go no more with prayers and adorations
      To Earth's deep Heart of Stone,
  Nor yet the Abantes' floor, nor where the nations
      Kneel at Olympia's throne,
  Till all this dark be lightened, for the finger
      Of man to touch and know.
  O Thou that rulest--if men rightly call
  Thy name on earth--O Zeus, thou Lord of all
  And Strength undying, let not these things linger
      Unknown, tossed to and fro.

            For faint is the oracle,
              And they thrust it aside, away;
            And no more visible
              Apollo to save or slay;
            And the things of God, they fail
              As mist on the wind away.

    [JOCASTA _comes out from the Palace followed
       by handmaids bearing incense and flowers._

JOCASTA.

  Lords of the land, the ways my thought hath trod
  Lead me in worship to these shrines of God
  With flowers and incense flame. So dire a storm
  Doth shake the King, sin, dread and every form
  Of grief the world knows. 'Tis the wise man's way
  To judge the morrow by the yester day;

[Sidenote: vv. 917-933]

  Which he doth never, but gives eye and ear
  To all who speak, will they but speak of fear.
    And seeing no word of mine hath power to heal
  His torment, therefore forth to thee I steal,
  O Slayer of the Wolf, O Lord of Light,
  Apollo: thou art near us, and of right
  Dost hold us thine: to thee in prayer I fall.

    [_She kneels at the altar of Apollo Lukeios._

  Oh, show us still some path that is not all
  Unclean; for now our captain's eyes are dim
  With dread, and the whole ship must follow him.

    [_While she prays a_ STRANGER _has entered and
        begins to accost the Chorus._

STRANGER.

  Good masters, is there one of you could bring
  My steps to the house of Oedipus, your King?
  Or, better, to himself if that may be?

LEADER.

  This is the house and he within; and she
  Thou seest, the mother of his royal seed.

    [JOCASTA _rises, anxious, from her prayer._

STRANGER.

  Being wife to such a man, happy indeed
  And ringed with happy faces may she live!

JOCASTA.

  To one so fair of speech may the Gods give
  Like blessing, courteous stranger; 'tis thy due.
  But say what leads thee hither. Can we do
  Thy wish in aught, or hast thou news to bring?

[Sidenote: vv. 934-947]

STRANGER.

  Good news, O Queen, for thee and for the King.

JOCASTA.

  What is it? And from what prince comest thou?

STRANGER.

  I come from Corinth.--And my tale, I trow,
  Will give thee joy, yet haply also pain.

JOCASTA.

  What news can have that twofold power? Be plain.

STRANGER.

 'Tis spoke in Corinth that the gathering
  Of folk will make thy lord our chosen King.

JOCASTA.

  How? Is old Polybus in power no more?

STRANGER.

  Death has a greater power. His reign is o'er.

JOCASTA.

  What say'st thou? Dead?... Oedipus' father dead?

STRANGER.

  If I speak false, let me die in his stead.

JOCASTA.

  Ho, maiden! To our master! Hie thee fast
  And tell this tale.

    [_The maiden goes._

                    Where stand ye at the last

[Sidenote: vv. 948-961]

  Ye oracles of God? For many a year
  Oedipus fled before that man, in fear
  To slay him. And behold we find him thus
  Slain by a chance death, not by Oedipus.

    [OEDIPUS _comes out from the Palace._

OEDIPUS.

  O wife, O face I love to look upon,
  Why call'st thou me from where I sat alone?

JOCASTA.

  Give ear, and ponder from what this man tells
  How end these proud priests and their oracles.

OEDIPUS.

  Whence comes he? And what word hath he for us?

JOCASTA.

  From Corinth; bearing news that Polybus
  Thy father is no more. He has found his death.

OEDIPUS.

  How?--Stranger, speak thyself. This that she saith ...

STRANGER.

  Is sure. If that is the first news ye crave,
  I tell thee, Polybus lieth in his grave.

OEDIPUS.

  Not murdered?... How? Some passing of disease?

STRANGER.

  A slight thing turns an old life to its peace.

[Sidenote: vv. 962-978]

OEDIPUS.

  Poor father!... 'Tis by sickness he is dead?

STRANGER.

  The growing years lay heavy on his head.

OEDIPUS.

  O wife, why then should man fear any more
  The voice of Pytho's dome, or cower before
  These birds that shriek above us? They foretold
  Me for my father's murderer; and behold,
  He lies in Corinth dead, and here am I
  And never touched the sword.... Or did he die
  In grief for me who left him? In that way
  I may have wrought his death.... But come what may,
  He sleepeth in his grave and with him all
  This deadly seercraft, of no worth at all.

JOCASTA.

  Dear Lord, long since did I not show thee clear...?

OEDIPUS.

  Indeed, yes. I was warped by mine own fear.

JOCASTA.

  Now thou wilt cast it from thee, and forget.

OEDIPUS.

  Forget my mother?... It is not over yet.

JOCASTA.

  What should man do with fear, who hath but Chance
  Above him, and no sight nor governance

[Sidenote: vv. 979-993]

  Of things to be? To live as life may run,
  No fear, no fret, were wisest 'neath the sun.
  And thou, fear not thy mother. Prophets deem
  A deed wrought that is wrought but in a dream.
  And he to whom these things are nothing, best
  Will bear his burden.

OEDIPUS.

                        All thou counsellest
  Were good, save that my mother liveth still.
  And, though thy words be wise, for good or ill
  Her I still fear.

JOCASTA.

                    Think of thy father's tomb!
  Like light across our darkness it hath come.

OEDIPUS.

  Great light; but while she lives I fly from her.

STRANGER.

  What woman, Prince, doth fill thee so with fear?

OEDIPUS.

  Merope, friend, who dwelt with Polybus.

STRANGER.

  What in Queen Merope should fright thee thus?

OEDIPUS.

  A voice of God, stranger, of dire import.

STRANGER.

  Meet for mine ears? Or of some secret sort?

[Sidenote: vv. 994-1009]

OEDIPUS.

  Nay, thou must hear, and Corinth. Long ago
  Apollo spake a doom, that I should know
  My mother's flesh, and with mine own hand spill
  My father's blood.--'Tis that, and not my will,
  Hath kept me always far from Corinth. So;
  Life hath dealt kindly with me, yet men know
  On earth no comfort like a mother's face.

STRANGER.

 'Tis that, hath kept thee exiled in this place?

OEDIPUS.

  That, and the fear too of my father's blood.

STRANGER.

  Then, surely, Lord ... I came but for thy good ...
 'Twere well if from that fear I set thee free.

OEDIPUS.

  Ah, couldst thou! There were rich reward for thee.

STRANGER.

  To say truth, I had hoped to lead thee home
  Now, and myself to get some good therefrom.

OEDIPUS.

  Nay; where my parents are I will not go.

STRANGER.

  My son, 'tis very clear thou dost not know
  What road thou goest.

OEDIPUS.

              How? In God's name, say!
  How clear?

[Sidenote: vv. 1010-1019]

STRANGER.

              'Tis this, keeps thee so long away
  From Corinth?

OEDIPUS.

                  'Tis the fear lest that word break
  One day upon me true.

STRANGER.

                          Fear lest thou take
  Defilement from the two that gave thee birth?

OEDIPUS.

 'Tis that, old man, 'tis that doth fill the earth
  With terror.

STRANGER.

                Then thy terror all hath been
  For nothing.

OEDIPUS.

                How? Were not your King and Queen
  My parents?

STRANGER.

              Polybus was naught to thee
  In blood.

OEDIPUS.

            How? He, my father!

STRANGER.

                                That was he
  As much as I, but no more.

OEDIPUS.

                              Thou art naught;
 'Twas he begot me.

[Sidenote: vv. 1020-1028]

STRANGER.

                         'Twas not I begot
  Oedipus, neither was it he.

OEDIPUS.

                              What wild
  Fancy, then, made him name me for his child?

STRANGER.

  Thou wast his child--by gift. Long years ago
  Mine own hand brought thee to him.

OEDIPUS.

                                     Coming so,
  From a strange hand, he gave me that great love?

STRANGER.

  He had no child, and the desire thereof
  Held him.

OEDIPUS.

            And thou didst find somewhere--or buy--
  A child for him?

STRANGER.

                   I found it in a high
  Glen of Kithairon.

    [_Movement of_ JOCASTA, _who stands riveted
        with dread, unnoticed by the others._

OEDIPUS.

                     Yonder? To what end
  Wast travelling in these parts?

STRANGER.

                                  I came to tend
  The flocks here on the mountain.

[Sidenote: vv. 1029-1037]

OEDIPUS.

                                     Thou wast one
  That wandered, tending sheep for hire?

STRANGER.

                                         My son,
  That day I was the saviour of a King.

OEDIPUS.

  How saviour? Was I in some suffering
  Or peril?

STRANGER.

            Thine own feet a tale could speak.

OEDIPUS.

  Ah me! What ancient pain stirs half awake
  Within me!

STRANGER.

              'Twas a spike through both thy feet.
  I set thee free.

OEDIPUS.

                    A strange scorn that, to greet
  A babe new on the earth!

STRANGER.

                            From that they fain
  Must call thee Oedipus, "_Who-walks-in-pain_."

OEDIPUS.

  Who called me so--father or mother? Oh,
  In God's name, speak!

[Sidenote: vv. 1038-1046]

STRANGER.

                     I know not. He should know
  Who brought thee.

OEDIPUS.

                    So: I was not found by thee.
  Thou hadst me from another?

STRANGER.

                              Aye; to me
  One of the shepherds gave the babe, to bear
  Far off.

OEDIPUS.

      What shepherd? Know'st thou not? Declare
  All that thou knowest.

STRANGER.

                         By my memory, then,
  I think they called him one of Laius' men.

OEDIPUS.

  That Laius who was king in Thebes of old?

STRANGER.

  The same. My man did herding in his fold.

OEDIPUS.

  Is he yet living? Can I see his face?

STRANGER.

    [_Turning to the Chorus._

  Ye will know that, being natives to the place.

[Sidenote: vv. 1047-1062]

OEDIPUS.

  How?--Is there one of you within my pale
  Standing, that knows the shepherd of his tale?
  Ye have seen him on the hills? Or in this town?
  Speak! For the hour is come that all be known.

LEADER.

  I think 'twill be the Peasant Man, the same,
  Thou hast sought long time to see.--His place and name
  Our mistress, if she will, can tell most clear.

    [JOCASTA _remains as if she heard nothing._

OEDIPUS.

  Thou hear'st him, wife. The herd whose presence here
  We craved for, is it he this man would say?

JOCASTA.

  He saith ... What of it? Ask not; only pray
  Not to remember.... Tales are vainly told.

OEDIPUS.

 'Tis mine own birth. How can I, when I hold
  Such clues as these, refrain from knowing all?

JOCASTA.

  For God's love, no! Not if thou car'st at all
  For thine own life.... My anguish is enough.

OEDIPUS (_bitterly_).

  Fear not!... Though I be thrice of slavish stuff
  From my third grand-dam down, it shames not thee.

[Sidenote: vv. 1063-1075]

JOCASTA.

  Ask no more. I beseech thee.... Promise me!

OEDIPUS.

  To leave the Truth half-found? 'Tis not my mood.

JOCASTA.

  I understand; and tell thee what is good.

OEDIPUS.

  Thy good doth weary me.

JOCASTA.

                          O child of woe,
  I pray God, I pray God, thou never know!

OEDIPUS (_turning from her_).

  Go, fetch the herdsman straight!--This Queen of mine
  May walk alone to boast her royal line.

JOCASTA.

    [_She twice draws in her breath through her
        teeth, as if in some sharp pain._

  Unhappy one, goodbye! Goodbye before
  I go: this once, and never never more!

    [_She comes towards him as though to take a last
        farewell, then stops suddenly, turns, and
        rushes into the Palace._

LEADER.

  King, what was that? She passed like one who flies
  In very anguish. Dread is o'er mine eyes
  Lest from this silence break some storm of wrong.

[Sidenote: vv. 1076-1097]

OEDIPUS.

  Break what break will! My mind abideth strong
  To know the roots, how low soe'er they be,
  Which grew to Oedipus. This woman, she
  Is proud, methinks, and fears my birth and name
  Will mar her nobleness. But I, no shame
  Can ever touch me. I am Fortune's child,
  Not man's; her mother face hath ever smiled
  Above me, and my brethren of the sky,
  The changing Moons, have changed me low and high.
  There is my lineage true, which none shall wrest
  From me; who then am I to fear this quest?

CHORUS.

    [_They sing_ OEDIPUS _as the foundling of their
        own Theban mountain, Kithairon, and
        doubtless of divine birth._

    [_Strophe._

  If I, O Kithairon, some vision can borrow
    From seercraft, if still there is wit in the old,
  Long, long, through the deep-orbed Moon of the morrow--
    So hear me, Olympus!--thy tale shall be told.
  O mountain of Thebes, a new Theban shall praise thee,
    One born of thy bosom, one nursed at thy springs;
  And the old men shall dance to thy glory, and raise thee
    To worship, O bearer of joy to my kings.
            And thou, we pray,
  Look down in peace, O Apollo; I-e, I-e!

[Sidenote: vv. 1098-1120]

    [_Antistrophe._

  What Oread mother, unaging, unweeping,
    Did bear thee, O Babe, to the Crag-walker Pan;
  Or perchance to Apollo? He loveth the leaping
    Of herds on the rock-ways unhaunted of man.
  Or was it the lord of Cyllene, who found thee,
    Or glad Dionysus, whose home is the height,
  Who knew thee his own on the mountain, as round thee
    The White Brides of Helicon laughed for delight?
                  'Tis there, 'tis there,
  The joy most liveth of all his dance and prayer.

OEDIPUS.

  If I may judge, ye Elders, who have ne'er
  Seen him, methinks I see the shepherd there
  Whom we have sought so long. His weight of years
  Fits well with our Corinthian messenger's;
  And, more, I know the men who guide his way,
  Bondsmen of mine own house.
                              Thou, friend, wilt say
  Most surely, who hast known the man of old.

LEADER.

  I know him well. A shepherd of the fold
  Of Laius, one he trusted more than all.

    [_The_ SHEPHERD _comes in, led by two thralls.
        He is an old man and seems terrified._

OEDIPUS.

  Thou first, our guest from Corinth: say withal
  Is this the man?

[Sidenote: vv. 1120-1130]

STRANGER.

           This is the man, O King.

OEDIPUS.

    [_Addressing the_ SHEPHERD.

  Old man! Look up, and answer everything
  I ask thee.--Thou wast Laius' man of old?

SHEPHERD.

  Born in his house I was, not bought with gold.

OEDIPUS.

  What kind of work, what way of life, was thine?

SHEPHERD.

  Most of my days I tended sheep or kine.

OEDIPUS.

  What was thy camping ground at midsummer?

SHEPHERD.

  Sometimes Kithairon, sometimes mountains near.

OEDIPUS.

  Saw'st ever there this man thou seest now?

SHEPHERD.

  There, Lord? What doing?--What man meanest thou?

OEDIPUS.

    [_Pointing to the_ STRANGER.

  Look! Hath he ever crossed thy path before?

[Sidenote: vv. 1131-1146]

SHEPHERD.

  I call him not to mind, I must think more.

STRANGER.

  Small wonder that, O King! But I will throw
  Light on his memories.--Right well I know
  He knows the time when, all Kithairon through,
  I with one wandering herd and he with two,
  Three times we neighboured one another, clear
  From spring to autumn stars, a good half-year.
  At winter's fall we parted; he drove down
  To his master's fold, and I back to mine own....
  Dost call it back, friend? Was it as I say?

SHEPHERD.

  It was. It was.... 'Tis all so far away.

STRANGER.

  Say then: thou gavest me once, there in the wild,
  A babe to rear far off as mine own child?

SHEPHERD.

    [_His terror returning._

  What does this mean? To what end askest thou?

STRANGER.

    [_Pointing to_ OEDIPUS.

  That babe has grown, friend. 'Tis our master now.

SHEPHERD.

    [_He slowly understands, then stands for a moment horror-struck._

  No, in the name of death!... Fool, hold thy peace.

    [_He lifts his staff at the_ STRANGER.

[Sidenote: vv. 1147-1157]

OEDIPUS.

  Ha, greybeard! Wouldst thou strike him?--'Tis not his
  Offences, 'tis thine own we need to mend.

SHEPHERD.

  Most gentle master, how do I offend?

OEDIPUS.

  Whence came that babe whereof he questioneth?

SHEPHERD.

  He doth not know ... 'tis folly ... what he saith.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou wilt not speak for love; but pain maybe ...

SHEPHERD.

  I am very old. Ye would not torture me.

OEDIPUS.

  Back with his arms, ye bondmen! Hold him so.

    [_The thralls drag back the_ SHEPHERD'S
       _arms, ready for torture._

SHEPHERD.

  Woe's me! What have I done?... What wouldst thou know?

OEDIPUS.

  Didst give this man the child, as he doth say?

SHEPHERD.

  I did.... Would God that I had died this day!

[Sidenote: vv. 1158-1167]

OEDIPUS.

 'Fore heaven, thou shalt yet, if thou speak not true.

SHEPHERD.

 'Tis more than death and darker, if I do.

OEDIPUS.

  This dog, it seems, will keep us waiting.

SHEPHERD.

                                       Nay,
  I said at first I gave it.

OEDIPUS.

                               In what way
  Came it to thee? Was it thine own child, or
  Another's?

SHEPHERD.

             Nay, it never crossed my door:
  Another's.

OEDIPUS.

             Whose? What man, what house, of these
  About thee?

SHEPHERD.

              In the name of God who sees,
  Ask me no more!

OEDIPUS.

                  If once I ask again,
  Thou diest.

SHEPHERD.

              From the folk of Laius, then,
  It came.

[Sidenote: vv. 1168-1176]

OEDIPUS.

          A slave, or born of Laius' blood?

SHEPHERD.

  There comes the word I dread to speak, O God!

OEDIPUS.

  And I to hear: yet heard it needs must be.

SHEPHERD.

  Know then, they said 'twas Laius' child. But she
  Within, thy wife, best knows its fathering.

OEDIPUS.

 'Twas she that gave it?

SHEPHERD.

                          It was she, O King.

OEDIPUS.

  And bade you ... what?

SHEPHERD.

                         Destroy it.

OEDIPUS.
                            Her own child?...
  Cruel!

SHEPHERD.

          Dark words of God had made her wild.

OEDIPUS.

  What words?

[Sidenote: vv. 1176-1192]

SHEPHERD.

                 The babe must slay his father; so
  'Twas written.

OEDIPUS.

                 Why didst thou, then, let him go
  With this old man?

SHEPHERD.

                           O King, I pitied him.
  I thought the man would save him to some dim
  And distant land, beyond all fear.... And he,
  To worse than death, did save him!... Verily,
  If thou art he whom this man telleth of,
  To sore affliction thou art born.

OEDIPUS.

                                     Enough!
  All, all, shall be fulfilled.... Oh, on these eyes
  Shed light no more, ye everlasting skies
  That know my sin! I have sinned in birth and breath.
  I have sinned with Woman. I have sinned with Death.

    [_He rushes into the Palace. The_ SHEPHERD
        _is led away by the thralls._

CHORUS.

    [_Strophe._

         Nothingness, nothingness,
         Ye Children of Man, and less
           I count you, waking or dreaming!
         And none among mortals, none,
         Seeking to live, hath won
         More than to seem, and to cease
             Again from his seeming.

[Sidenote: vv. 1193-1212]

        While ever before mine eyes
        One fate, one ensample, lies--
        Thine, thine, O Oedipus, sore
            Of God oppressed--
        What thing that is human more
            Dare I call blessed?

    [_Antistrophe._

        Straight his archery flew
        To the heart of living; he knew
            Joy and the fulness of power,
        O Zeus, when the riddling breath
        Was stayed and the Maid of Death
        Slain, and we saw him through
            The death-cloud, a tower!

        For that he was called my king;
        Yea, every precious thing
        Wherewith men are honoured, down
            We cast before him,
        And great Thebes brought her crown
            And kneeled to adore him.

    [_Strophe._

  But now, what man's story is such bitterness to speak?
    What life hath Delusion so visited, and Pain,
                And swiftness of Disaster?
                O great King, our master,
    How oped the one haven to the slayer and the slain?
  And the furrows of thy father, did they turn not nor shriek,
    Did they bear so long silent thy casting of the grain?

[Sidenote: vv. 1213-1235]

    [_Antistrophe._

 'Tis Time, Time, desireless, hath shown thee what thou art;
    The long monstrous mating, it is judged and all its race.
            O child of him that sleepeth,
            Thy land weepeth, weepeth,
    Unfathered.... Would God, I had never seen thy face!
  From thee in great peril fell peace upon my heart,
    In thee mine eye clouded and the dark is come apace.

    [_A_ MESSENGER _rushes out from the Palace._

MESSENGER.

  O ye above this land in honour old
  Exalted, what a tale shall ye be told,
  What sights shall see, and tears of horror shed,
  If still your hearts be true to them that led
  Your sires! There runs no river, well I ween,
  Not Phasis nor great Ister, shall wash clean
  This house of all within that hideth--nay,
  Nor all that creepeth forth to front the day,
  Of purposed horror. And in misery
  That woundeth most which men have willed to be.

LEADER.

  No lack there was in what we knew before
  Of food for heaviness. What bring'st thou more?

MESSENGER.

  One thing I bring thee first.... 'Tis quickly said.
  Jocasta, our anointed queen, is dead.

[Sidenote: vv. 1236-1260]

LEADER.

  Unhappy woman! How came death to her?

MESSENGER.

  By her own hand.... Oh, of what passed in there
  Ye have been spared the worst. Ye cannot see.
  Howbeit, with that which still is left in me
  Of mind and memory, ye shall hear her fate.
    Like one entranced with passion, through the gate
  She passed, the white hands flashing o'er her head,
  Like blades that tear, and fled, unswerving fled,
  Toward her old bridal room, and disappeared
  And the doors crashed behind her. But we heard
  Her voice within, crying to him of old,
  Her Laius, long dead; and things untold
  Of the old kiss unforgotten, that should bring
  The lover's death and leave the loved a thing
  Of horror, yea, a field beneath the plough
  For sire and son: then wailing bitter-low
  Across that bed of births unreconciled,
  Husband from husband born and child from child.
  And, after that, I know not how her death
  Found her. For sudden, with a roar of wrath,
  Burst Oedipus upon us. Then, I ween,
  We marked no more what passion held the Queen,
  But him, as in the fury of his stride,
  "A sword! A sword! And show me here," he cried,
  "That wife, no wife, that field of bloodstained earth
  Where husband, father, sin on sin, had birth,
  Polluted generations!" While he thus
  Raged on, some god--for sure 'twas none of us--
  Showed where she was; and with a shout away,
  As though some hand had pointed to the prey,

[Sidenote: vv. 1261-1286]

  He dashed him on the chamber door. The straight
  Door-bar of oak, it bent beneath his weight,
  Shook from its sockets free, and in he burst
  To the dark chamber.
                       There we saw her first
  Hanged, swinging from a noose, like a dead bird.
  He fell back when he saw her. Then we heard
  A miserable groan, and straight he found
  And loosed the strangling knot, and on the ground
  Laid her.--Ah, then the sight of horror came!
  The pin of gold, broad-beaten like a flame,
  He tore from off her breast, and, left and right,
  Down on the shuddering orbits of his sight
  Dashed it: "Out! Out! Ye never more shall see
  Me nor the anguish nor the sins of me.
  Ye looked on lives whose like earth never bore,
  Ye knew not those my spirit thirsted for:
  Therefore be dark for ever!"
                               Like a song
  His voice rose, and again, again, the strong
  And stabbing hand fell, and the massacred
  And bleeding eyeballs streamed upon his beard,
  Wild rain, and gouts of hail amid the rain.
    Behold affliction, yea, afflictions twain
  From man and woman broken, now made one
  In downfall. All the riches yester sun
  Saw in this house were rich in verity.
  What call ye now our riches? Agony,
  Delusion, Death, Shame, all that eye or ear
  Hath ever dreamed of misery, is here.

LEADER.

  And now how fares he? Doth the storm abate?

[Sidenote: vv. 1287-1308]

MESSENGER.

  He shouts for one to open wide the gate
  And lead him forth, and to all Thebes display
  His father's murderer, his mother's.... Nay,
  Such words I will not speak. And his intent
  Is set, to cast himself in banishment
  Out to the wild, not walk 'mid human breed
  Bearing the curse he bears. Yet sore his need
  Of strength and of some guiding hand. For sure
  He hath more burden now than man may endure.
    But see, the gates fall back, and that appears
  Which he who loathes shall pity--yea, with tears.

    [OEDIPUS _is led in, blinded and bleeding. The
       Old Men bow down and hide their faces;
       some of them weep._

CHORUS.

  Oh, terrible! Oh, sight of all
      This life hath crossed, most terrible!
      Thou man more wronged than tongue can tell,
  What madness took thee? Do there crawl
      Live Things of Evil from the deep
      To leap on man? Oh, what a leap
  Was His that flung thee to thy fall!

LEADER.

  O fallen, fallen in ghastly case,
      I dare not raise mine eyes to thee;
      Fain would I look and ask and see,
  But shudder sickened from thy face.

OEDIPUS.

          Oh, pain; pain and woe!
              Whither? Whither?

[Sidenote: vv. 1308-1328]

          They lead me and I go;
            And my voice drifts on the air
                  Far away.
            Where, Thing of Evil, where
              Endeth thy leaping hither?

LEADER.

  In fearful ends, which none may hear nor say.

OEDIPUS.

    [_Strophe._

      Cloud of the dark, mine own
          For ever, horrible,
          Stealing, stealing, silent, unconquerable,
          Cloud that no wind, no summer can dispel!
      Again, again I groan,
  As through my heart together crawl the strong
  Stabs of this pain and memories of old wrong.

LEADER.

  Yea, twofold hosts of torment hast thou there,
  The stain to think on and the pain to bear.

OEDIPUS.

    [_Antistrophe._

      O Friend, thou mine own
           Still faithful, minister
           Steadfast abiding alone of them that were,
           Dost bear with me and give the blind man care?
      Ah me! Not all unknown
  Nor hid thou art. Deep in this dark a call
  Comes and I know thy voice in spite of all.

LEADER.

  O fearful sufferer, and could'st thou kill
  Thy living orbs? What God made blind thy will?

[Sidenote: vv. 1329-1351]

OEDIPUS.

    [_Strophe._

 'Tis Apollo; all is Apollo,
    O ye that love me, 'tis he long time hath planned
      These things upon me evilly, evilly,
        Dark things and full of blood.
  I knew not; I did but follow
    His way; but mine the hand
      And mine the anguish. What were mine eyes to me
        When naught to be seen was good?

LEADER.

 'Tis even so; and Truth doth speak in thee.

OEDIPUS.

  To see, to endure, to hear words kindly spoken,
    Should I have joy in such?
      Out, if ye love your breath,
  Cast me swift unto solitude, unbroken
    By word or touch.
      Am I not charged with death,
        Most charged and filled to the brim
      With curses? And what man saith
        God hath so hated him?

LEADER.

  Thy bitter will, thy hard calamity,
  Would I had never known nor looked on thee!

OEDIPUS.

    [_Antistrophe._

  My curse, my curse upon him,
    That man whom pity held in the wilderness,
      Who saved the feet alive from the blood-fetter
        And loosed the barb thereof!

[Sidenote: vv. 1351-1377]

  That babe--what grace was done him,
    Had he died shelterless,
      He had not laid on himself this grief to bear,
        And all who gave him love.

LEADER.

  I, too, O Friend, I had been happier.

OEDIPUS.

  Found not the way to his father's blood, nor shaken
        The world's scorn on his mother,
          The child and the groom withal;
  But now, of murderers born, of God forsaken,
        Mine own sons' brother;
          All this, and if aught can fall
            Upon man more perilous
          And elder in sin, lo, all
            Is the portion of Oedipus.

LEADER.

  How shall I hold this counsel of thy mind
  True? Thou wert better dead than living blind.

OEDIPUS.

  That this deed is not well and wisely wrought
  Thou shalt not show me; therefore school me not.
  Think, with what eyes hereafter in the place
  Of shadows could I see my father's face,
  Or my poor mother's? Both of whom this hand
  Hath wronged too deep for man to understand.
  Or children--born as mine were born, to see
  Their shapes should bring me joy? Great God!
      To me

[Sidenote: vv. 1378-1403]

  There is no joy in city nor in tower
  Nor temple, from all whom, in this mine hour,
  I that was chief in Thebes alone, and ate
  The King's bread, I have made me separate
  For ever. Mine own lips have bid the land
  Cast from it one so evil, one whose hand
  To sin was dedicate, whom God hath shown
  Birth-branded ... and my blood the dead King's own!
  All this myself have proved. And can I then
  Look with straight eyes into the eyes of men?
  I trow not. Nay, if any stop there were
  To dam this fount that welleth in mine ear
  For hearing, I had never blenched nor stayed
  Till this vile shell were all one dungeon made,
  Dark, without sound. 'Tis thus the mind would fain
  Find peace, self-prisoned from a world of pain.
    O wild Kithairon, why was it thy will
  To save me? Why not take me quick and kill,
  Kill, before ever I could make men know
  The thing I am, the thing from which I grow?
  Thou dead King, Polybus, thou city wall
  Of Corinth, thou old castle I did call
  My father's, what a life did ye begin,
  What splendour rotted by the worm within,
  When ye bred me! O Crossing of the Roads,
  O secret glen and dusk of crowding woods,
  O narrow footpath creeping to the brink
  Where meet the Three! I gave you blood to drink.
  Do ye remember? 'Twas my life-blood, hot
  From mine own father's heart. Have ye forgot
  What deed I did among you, and what new
  And direr deed I fled from you to do?
  O flesh, horror of flesh!...

[Sidenote: vv. 1409-1431]

                              But what is shame
  To do should not be spoken. In God's name,
  Take me somewhere far off and cover me
  From sight, or slay, or cast me to the sea
  Where never eye may see me any more.
    What? Do ye fear to touch a man so sore
  Stricken? Nay, tremble not. My misery
  Is mine, and shall be borne by none but me.

LEADER.

  Lo, yonder comes for answer to thy prayer
  Creon, to do and to decree. The care
  Of all our land is his, now thou art weak.

OEDIPUS.

  Alas, what word to Creon can I speak,
  How make him trust me more? He hath seen of late
  So vile a heart in me, so full of hate.

_Enter_ CREON.

CREON.

  Not to make laughter, Oedipus, nor cast
  Against thee any evil of the past
  I seek thee, but ... Ah God! ye ministers,
  Have ye no hearts? Or if for man there stirs
  No pity in you, fear at least to call
  Stain on our Lord the Sun, who feedeth all;
  Nor show in nakedness a horror such
  As this, which never mother Earth may touch,
  Nor God's clean rain nor sunlight. Quick within!
  Guide him.--The ills that in a house have been
  They of the house alone should know or hear.

[Sidenote: vv. 1432-1447]

OEDIPUS.

  In God's name, since thou hast undone the fear
  Within me, coming thus, all nobleness,
  To one so vile, grant me one only grace.
  For thy sake more I crave it than mine own.

CREON.

  Let me first hear what grace thou wouldst be shown.

OEDIPUS.

  Cast me from Thebes ... now, quick ... where none may see
  My visage more, nor mingle words with me.

CREON.

  That had I done, for sure, save that I still
  Tremble, and fain would ask Apollo's will.

OEDIPUS.

  His will was clear enough, to stamp the unclean
  Thing out, the bloody hand, the heart of sin.

CREON.

 'Twas thus he seemed to speak; but in this sore
  Strait we must needs learn surer than before.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou needs must trouble God for one so low?

CREON.

  Surely; thyself will trust his answer now.

OEDIPUS.

  I charge thee more ... and, if thou fail, my sin
  Shall cleave to thee.... For her who lies within,

[Sidenote: vv. 1448-1472]

  Make as thou wilt her burial. 'Tis thy task
  To tend thine own. But me: let no man ask
  This ancient city of my sires to give
  Harbour in life to me. Set me to live
  On the wild hills and leave my name to those
  Deeps of Kithairon which my father chose,
  And mother, for my vast and living tomb.
  As they, my murderers, willed it, let my doom
  Find me. For this my very heart doth know,
  No sickness now, nor any mortal blow,
  Shall slay this body. Never had my breath
  Been thus kept burning in the midst of death,
  Save for some frightful end. So, let my way
  Go where it listeth.
                       But my children--Nay,
  Creon, my sons will ask thee for no care.
  Men are they, and can find them everywhere
  What life needs. But my two poor desolate
  Maidens.... There was no table ever set
  Apart for them, but whatso royal fare
  I tasted, they were with me and had share
  In all.... Creon, I pray, forget them not.
  And if it may be, go, bid them be brought,

    [CREON _goes and presently returns with the
       two princesses._ OEDIPUS _thinks he is
       there all the time._

  That I may touch their faces, and so weep....
  Go, Prince. Go, noble heart!...
  If I might touch them, I should seem to keep
  And not to have lost them, now mine eyes are gone....
  What say I?
  In God's name, can it be I hear mine own

[Sidenote: vv. 1473-1505]

  Beloved ones sobbing? Creon of his grace
  Hath brought my two, my dearest, to this place.
  Is it true?

CREON.

 'Tis true. I brought them, for in them I know
  Thy joy is, the same now as long ago.

OEDIPUS.

  God bless thee, and in this hard journey give
  Some better guide than mine to help thee live.
    Children! Where are ye? Hither; come to these
  Arms of your ... brother, whose wild offices
  Have brought much darkness on the once bright eyes
  Of him who grew your garden; who, nowise
  Seeing nor understanding, digged a ground
  The world shall shudder at. Children, my wound
  Is yours too, and I cannot meet your gaze
  Now, as I think me what remaining days
  Of bitter living the world hath for you.
  What dance of damsels shall ye gather to,
  What feast of Thebes, but quick ye shall turn home,
  All tears, or ere the feast or dancers come?
  And, children, when ye reach the years of love,
  Who shall dare wed you, whose heart rise above
  The peril, to take on him all the shame
  That cleaves to my name and my children's name?
  God knows, it is enough!...
  My flowers, ye needs must die, waste things, bereft
  And fruitless.
                 Creon, thou alone art left
  Their father now, since both of us are gone
  Who cared for them. Oh, leave them not alone

[Sidenote: vv. 1505-1518]

  To wander masterless, these thine own kin,
  And beggared. Neither think of them such sin
  As ye all know in me, but let their fate
  Touch thee. So young they are, so desolate--
  Of all save thee. True man, give me thine hand,
  And promise.

    [OEDIPUS _and_ CREON _clasp hands._

                If your age could understand,
  Children, full many counsels I could give.
  But now I leave this one word: Pray to live
  As life may suffer you, and find a road
  To travel easier than your father trod.

CREON.

  Enough thy heart hath poured its tears; now back into
  thine house repair.

OEDIPUS.

I dread the house, yet go I must.

CREON.

              Fair season maketh all things fair.

OEDIPUS.

  One oath then give me, and I go.

CREON.

              Name it, and I will answer thee.

OEDIPUS.

  To cast me from this land.

[Sidenote: vv. 1519-1523]

CREON.

             A gift not mine but God's thou askest me.

OEDIPUS.

  I am a thing of God abhorred.

CREON.

            The more, then, will he grant thy prayer.

OEDIPUS.

  Thou givest thine oath?

CREON.

    I see no light; and, seeing not, I may not swear.

OEDIPUS.

  Then take me hence. I care not.

CREON.

          Go in peace, and give these children o'er.

OEDIPUS.

  Ah no! Take not away my daughters!

    [_They are taken from him._

CREON.

                     Seek not to be master more. Did not thy
    masteries of old forsake thee when the end was near?

[Sidenote: vv. 1524-1530]

CHORUS.

  Ye citizens of Thebes, behold; 'tis Oedipus that passeth here,
  Who read the riddle-word of Death, and mightiest stood of mortal
    men,
  And Fortune loved him, and the folk that saw him turned and looked
    again.
  Lo, he is fallen, and around great storms and the outreaching sea!
  Therefore, O Man, beware, and look toward the end of things that be,
  The last of sights, the last of days; and no man's life account as gain
  Ere the full tale be finished and the darkness find him without pain.

    [OEDIPUS _is led into the house and the doors
       close on him._

                              NOTES TO

                       OEDIPUS, KING OF THEBES

P. 4, l. 21: Dry Ash of Ismenus.]--Divination by burnt offerings was
practised at an altar of Apollo by the river Ismenus in Thebes.

Observe how many traits Oedipus retains of the primitive king, who was
at once chief and medicine-man and god. The Priest thinks it necessary
to state explicitly that he does not regard Oedipus as a god, but he is
clearly not quite like other men. And it seems as if Oedipus himself
realised in this scene that the oracle from Delphi might well demand the
king's life. Cf. p. 6, "what deed of mine, what bitter task, May save my
city"; p. 7, "any fear for mine own death." This thought, present
probably in more minds than his, greatly increases the tension of the
scene. Cf. _Anthropology and the Classics_, pp. 74-79.]

P. 7, l. 87, Message of joy.]--Creon says this for the sake of the omen.
The first words uttered at such a crisis would be ominous and tend to
fulfil themselves.]

Pp. 13-16, ll. 216-275. The long cursing speech of Oedipus.]--Observe
that this speech is broken into several divisions, Oedipus at each point
expecting an answer and receiving none. Thus it is not mere declamation;
it involves action and reaction between a speaker and a crowd.--Every
reader will notice how full it is of "tragic irony." Almost every
paragraph carries with it some sinister meaning of which the speaker is
unconscious. Cf. such phrases as "if he tread my hearth," "had but his
issue been more fortunate," "as I would for mine own father," and of
course the whole situation.

P. 25, l. 437, Who were they?]--This momentary doubt of Oedipus, who of
course regarded himself as the son of Polybus, King of Corinth, is
explained later (p. 46, l. 780).

Pp. 29 ff. The Creon scene.]--The only part of the play which could
possibly be said to flag. Creon's defence, p. 34, "from probabilities,"
as the rhetoricians would have called it, seems less interesting to us
than it probably did to the poet's contemporaries. It is remarkably like
Hippolytus's defence (pp. 52 f. of my translation), and probably one was
suggested by the other. We cannot be sure which was the earlier play.

The scene serves at least to quicken the pace of the drama, to bring out
the impetuous and somewhat tyrannical nature of Oedipus, and to prepare
the magnificent entrance of Jocasta.

P. 36, l. 630, Thebes is my country.]--It must be remembered that to the
Chorus Creon is a real Theban, Oedipus a stranger from Corinth.

P. 41, Conversation of Oedipus and Jocasta.]--The technique of this
wonderful scene, an intimate self-revealing conversation between husband
and wife about the past, forming the pivot of the play, will remind a
modern reader of Ibsen.

P. 42, l. 718.]--Observe that Jocasta does not tell the whole truth. It
was she herself who gave the child to be killed (p. 70, l. 1173).

P. 42, l. 730, Crossing of Three Ways.]--Cross roads always had dark
associations. This particular spot was well known to tradition and is
still pointed out. "A bare isolated hillock of grey stone stands at the
point where our road from Daulia meets the road to Delphi and a third
road that stretches to the south.... The road runs up a frowning pass
between Parnassus on the right hand and the spurs of the Helicon range
on the left. Away to the south a wild and desolate valley opens, running
up among the waste places of Helicon, a scene of inexpressible grandeur
and desolation" (Jebb, abridged).

P. 44, l. 754, Who could bring, &c.]--Oedipus of course thought he had
killed them all. See his next speech.

P. 51.]--Observe the tragic effect of this prayer. Apollo means to
destroy Jocasta, not to save her; her prayer is broken across by the
entry of the Corinthian Stranger, which seems like a deliverance but is
really a link in the chain of destruction. There is a very similar
effect in Sophocles' _Electra_, 636-659, Clytaemnestra's prayer; compare
also the prayers to Cypris in Euripides' _Hippolytus_.

P. 51, l. 899.]--Abae was an ancient oracular shrine in Boeotia; Olympia
in Elis was the seat of the Olympian Games and of a great Temple of
Zeus.

P. 52, l. 918, O Slayer of the Wolf, O Lord of Light.]--The names
Lykeios, Lykios, &c., seem to have two roots, one meaning "Wolf" and the
other "Light."

P. 56, l. 987, Thy father's tomb Like light across our darkness.]--This
ghastly line does not show hardness of heart, it shows only the terrible
position in which Oedipus and Jocasta are. Naturally Oedipus would give
thanks if his father was dead. Compare his question above, p. 54, l.
960, "Not murdered?"--He cannot get the thought of the fated murder out
of his mind.

P. 57, l. 994.]--Why does Oedipus tell the Corinthian this oracle, which
he has kept a secret even from his wife till to-day?--Perhaps because,
if there is any thought of his going back to Corinth, his long voluntary
exile must be explained. Perhaps, too, the secret possesses his mind so
overpoweringly that it can hardly help coming out.

Pp. 57, 58, ll. 1000-1020.]--It is natural that the Corinthian hesitates
before telling a king that he is really not of royal birth.

Pp. 64, 65, ll. 1086-1109.]--This joyous Chorus strikes a curious note.
Of course it forms a good contrast with what succeeds, but how can the
Elders take such a serenely happy view of the discovery that Oedipus is
a foundling just after they have been alarmed at the exit of Jocasta? It
seems as if the last triumphant speech of Oedipus, "fey" and almost
touched with megalomania as it was, had carried the feeling of the
Chorus with it.

P. 66, l. 1122.]--Is there any part in any tragedy so short and yet so
effective as that of this Shepherd?

P. 75, l. 1264, Like a dead bird.]--The curious word, [Greek:
empeplegmenen], seems to be taken from Odyssey xxii. 469, where it is
applied to birds caught in a snare. As to the motives of Oedipus, his
first blind instinct to kill Jocasta as a thing that polluted the earth;
when he saw her already dead, a revulsion came.

P. 76, ll. 1305 ff.]--Observe how a climax of physical horror is
immediately veiled and made beautiful by lyrical poetry. Sophocles does
not, however, carry this plan of simply flooding the scene with sudden
beauty nearly so far as Euripides does. See _Hipp._, p. 39; _Trojan
Women_, p. 51.

P. 83, ll. 1450 ff., Set me to live on the wild hills.]--These lines
serve to explain the conception, existing in the poet's own time, of
Oedipus as a daemon or ghost haunting Mount Kithairon.

P. 86, l. 1520, Creon.]--Amid all Creon's whole-hearted forgiveness of
Oedipus and his ready kindness there are one or two lines of his which
strike a modern reader as tactless if not harsh. Yet I do not think that
Sophocles meant to produce that effect. At the present day it is not in
the best manners to moralise over a man who is down, any more than it is
the part of a comforter to expound and insist upon his friend's
misfortunes. But it looks as if ancient manners expected, and even
demanded, both. Cf. the attitude of Theseus to Adrastus in Eur.,
_Suppliants_.


SOPHOKLES

PHILOKTETES

Translated by Gregory McNamee

Originally published by Copper Canyon Press (Port Townsend,
Washington) in 1986.

Copyright (c) 1986, 1997 by Gregory McNamee
All Rights Reserved

This translation is made in loving memory of Scott Douglas
Padraic McNamee (1963-1984)

Todavia
Estoy vivo
En el centro
de una herida todavia fresca.

---Octavio Paz

INTRODUCTION

When Sophokles produced the Philoktetes in 408 B.C., three years before his death at the age of ninety, the ancient story of the tragic archer, abundantly represented in Greek literature, achieved a dramatic and psychological sophistication of a kind never before seen on the classical stage: the theater of violent action and suddenly reversed fortunes (the Oresteia, Ajax, Hippolytos) gave way, for a brilliant moment, to a strangely quiet, contemplative drama that centered not on deeds but ideas, not on actions but words.
	Foremost among Sophokles's concerns in the play, one that demanded such thoughtful consideration, is the question of human character and its origins. Indeed, the Philoktetes might well be regarded as the first literary expression of what has been termed the "nature-nurture controversy," a debate that continues to rage in the closing days of the twentieth century. In his drama, Sophokles places himself squarely among those who hold that one's character is determined not by environment or custom but by inborn nature (physis), and that one's greatest dishonor is to act, for whatever end, in ways not consonant with that essence.
	The tale itself, reached in medias res, is uncomplicated: Philoktetes, to whom the demigod Herakles bequeathed his magical bow, is recruited by the Achaean generals to serve in the war against Troy. On the way to the battle, Philoktetes, in the company of Odysseus and his crew, puts in at a tiny island to pray at a local temple to Apollo, the god of war. Wandering from the narrow path to the temple, Philoktetes is bitten by a sacred serpent, the warden of the holy precinct. The wound, divinely inflicted as it is and not admitting of mortal healing techniques, festers; and Philoktetes fills his companions' days with an unbearably evil stench and awful cries. His screams of agony prevent the Greeks from offering proper sacrifices to the gods (the ritual utterance eu phemeton, from which our word "euphemism" derives, means not "speak well," as it is sometimes translated, but "keep silent," in fitting attitude of respect). Finally, in desperation, Odysseus--never known as a patient man--puts in at the desert island of Lemnos and there casts Philoktetes away.
	Ten years of savage warfare pass, whereupon a captured Trojan oracle, Helenos, reveals to the Greeks that they will not be able to overcome Troy without Philoktetes (his name means "lover of possessions") and his magical bow. Ordered to fetch the castaway and escort him to the Greek battlefield, Odysseus, in keeping with his trickster nature, commands his lieutenant, Neoptolemos, the teenaged son of the newly slain Achilles, to win Philoktetes over to the Greek cause by treachery, promising the bowman a homeward voyage, when in truth he is to be bound once again into the service of those who marooned him. Neoptolemos is surprised at this turn of events, for until then he had been promised that he alone could finish his father's work and conquer Troy. Nonetheless, he accepts the orders of Odysseus and the Atreids, Agamemnon and Menelaos.
	Here lies the crux of the tale, for Neoptolemos learns through the course of the Philoktetes that he is simply unable, by virtue of his noble birth, to obey the roguish Odysseus's commands: his ancestry and the nature it has given him do not permit him to act deceitfully, no matter what profit might tempt him. Odysseus, on the other hand, cannot help but behave treacherously, for in Sophokles's account it is in his base, "slavelike" nature to do so. The resolution of Neoptolemos's conflict--and for all his ambivalence, the young man is the real hero of the story--forms the dramatic heart of the play.
	Edmund Wilson, in his famous essay "The Wound and the Bow," sought to read the Philoktetes as Sophokles's universal statement on the role of the artist in society: wounded, outcast, lacking some inner quality that might permit him or her to engage in the mundane events of life. Whatever the considerable merits of Wilson's analysis, argued with great sophistication and learning, in the end to read the bowman as a suffering artist seems more an act of anachronistic self-projection than the drama will admit. Instead, it is more likely that a brace of contemporary events propelled Sophokles to create the Philoktetes. The first involves a curious lawsuit that, as some ancient accounts have it, one of Sophokles's sons filed against him, charging that the old man was incapable of managing his affairs and that his estate, therefore, should be ceded to his heir. Sophokles's defense consisted entirely of a recitation from Oedipos at Kolonos, the masterpiece he was then composing. The Athenian jury instantly dismissed the son's suit, holding that no artist of such readily apparent gifts could be judged senile. Although modern scholars doubt the authenticity of this tale, it surely helps explain the tragedian's preoccupation in his final years with the origins of character, and whether a noble parent could in fact produce ignoble offspring.
	The second motivation may have been Sophokles's scorn for the rising generation of Athenian aristocrats, trained by a herd of eager, expensive philosophers--those whom Sokrates reviled in his Apology--in the arts of sophistry and corruption. These young men, the scions of reputedly noble families, quickly proved themselves to be willing to bring their city to ruin rather than surrender any of the privileges of their class; they argued that greatness of character was the exclusive province of the aristocracy to which they belonged, and that no common-born man (women did not enter into the question) could ever hope to be more than a vassal, brutish by nature and situation; and they governed Athens accordingly, destroying the constitutional foundations of the city and inaugurating the reign of terror of the Thirty Tyrants, under whose year-long rule some 1500 Athenian democrats, the noblest minds of a generation, were executed. For Sophokles, these actions, from which Athens was never able to recover, made it abundantly clear that one's social class had nothing whatever to do with greatness of character--quite the reverse, it must have seemed; but by the time he had crafted the Philoktetes, the humane, mature culture that Sophokles represented so well had been condemned to death by its own children.
	Kenneth Rexroth has written that in Sophokles's work "men suffer unjustly and learn little from suffering except to answer unanswerable questions with a kind of ultimate courtesy, an Occidental Confucianism that never pretends to solution. The
ages following Sophokles have learned from him the definition of nobility as an essential aristocratic irony which forms the intellect and sensibility." The Philoktetes stands as a splendid application of that ultimate courtesy, addressing timeless problems with a depth of emotion and tragic beauty that is unrivalled in the literature of the stage. (In particular, Sophokles's use of the chorus as the tormented inner voice of conscience is without peer.) It stands as one of the great accomplishments of the Greek mind, a striking depiction of the human soul's rising above seemingly insurmountable hardships to manifest its nobility. One of the fundamental documents in the history of the imagination, Philoktetes is alive, and it speaks to all of us.

GREGORY McNAMEE
Tucson, Arizona
October 1986

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This translation is based principally upon the Greek text and notes established by T.B.L. Webster in his edition of the Philoktetes (Cambridge University Press, 1970), a model of classical scholarship in every detail.
	I am indebted to many friends for their help in the course of preparing this version. Jean Stallings first introduced me to the play in the original Greek; with her, Timothy Winters and Richard Jensen helped guide me through the intricacies of the text. Melissa McCormick and my family, as always, offered indispensable encouragement. I am especially grateful to Scott Mahler, Stephen Cox, and above all Thomas D. Worthen for their critical readings of the manuscript in various drafts. Last, I am grateful to Sam Hamill and Tree Swenson, vortices of imagination, without whose efforts this book would not be.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

Odysseus
Chorus
Trader (Spy)
Neoptolemos
Philoktetes
Herakles

PHILOKTETES

ODYSSEUS

This is the shore of jagged Lemnos,
a land bound by waves, untrodden, lonely.
Here I abandoned Poias's son,
Philoktetes of Melos, years ago.
Neoptolemos, child of Lord Achilles,
the greatest by far of our Greek fighters,
I had to cast him away here:
our masters, the princes, commanded me to,
for disease had conquered him, and his foot
was eaten away by festering sores.
We had no recourse. At our holy feasts,
we could not reach for meat and wine.
He would not let us sleep;
he howled all night, wilder than a wolf.
He blanketed our camp with evil cries,
moaning, screaming.

But there is no time to talk of such things:
no time for long speeches and explanations.
He might hear us coming
and foil my scheme to take him back.

Your orders are to serve me,
to spy out the cave I found for him here---
a two-mouthed cave, exposed to the sun
for warmth in the cold months,
admitting cool breezes in summer's heat;
to the left, nearby it, a sweet-running spring,
if it is still sweet.
If he still lives in this cave or another place,
then I'll reveal more of my plan.
Listen: both of us have been charged with this.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Lord Odysseus, what you speak of is indeed nearby.
This is his place.

ODYSSEUS

Where? Above or below us? I cannot tell.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Above, and with no sound of footsteps or talking.

ODYSSEUS

Go and see if he's sleeping inside.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I see an empty dwelling. There is no one within.

ODYSSEUS

And none of the things that distinguish a house?

NEOPTOLEMOS

A pallet of trampled leaves, as if for a bed.

ODYSSEUS

And what else? Is there nothing more inside the cave?

NEOPTOLEMOS

A wooden mug, carelessly made,
and a few sticks of kindling.

ODYSSEUS

So this is the man's empty treasure-vault.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Look here. Rags lie drying in the sun,
full of pieces of skin and pus from his sores.

ODYSSEUS

Then clearly he still lives here.
He can't be far off.
Weakened as he is by long years of disease,
he can't stray far from home.
He is probably out scratching up a meal
or an herb he knows will relieve his pain.
Send a guard to keep close watch on this place
so he doesn't take me by surprise--
for he'd rather have me than any other Greek.

NEOPTOLEMOS

The path will be guarded.
Now tell me the rest.

ODYSSEUS

Son of Achilles, we are here for a reason.
You must be like your father, and not in strength alone.
If any of this sounds strange to you,
no matter. You must still serve those who are over you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What must I do?

ODYSSEUS

Entangle Philoktetes with clever words.
In order to trick him, say, when he asks you,
"I am Achilles's son"--there's no lie in that--
say you're on your way back home,
that you have abandoned the Greeks and all their ships,
you hate them so.
Speaking to him piously, as though to the gods of Olympos,
tell him they convinced you to leave your home,
by swearing that you alone could storm Troy.
And when you claimed your dead father's weapons,
as is your birthright, say they scorned you,
called you unworthy of them, and gave them to me,
although you had been demanding them. Say whatever you want to
against me. Say the worst that comes to mind.
None of it will insult me. If you do not match this task,
you will cast endless sorrow and suffering on the Greeks.
If we do not return with this poor man's bow,
you will not take the holy city of Troy.
You may wonder whether you can do this safely,
and why he would trust you. I'll tell you why:
you have come here willingly, without having been forced,
and you had nothing to do with what happened before.
I cannot say the same.
If Philoktetes, bow in hand, should see me,
I would be dead in an instant.
So would you, being in my company.
We must come up with a scheme.
You must learn to be cunning,
and steal away his invincible bow.

I know, son, that by nature you are unsuited
to tell such lies and work such evil.
But the prize of victory is a sweet thing to have.
Go through with it. The end justifies the means, they'll say.
For a few short, shameless hours, yield to me.
From then on you'll be hailed as the most virtuous of men.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Son of Laertes, what pains me to hear
pains me more to do. It is not my nature, as you say,
to take what I want by tricks and schemes.
My father, as I hear it, was of the same mind.
I will gladly fight Philoktetes, capture him,
and make him our hostage, but not like this.
How can a one-legged man, alone, win against us?
I know I was sent to carry out these orders.
I do not want to make things hard for you.
But I far prefer failure, if it is honest,
to victory earned by treachery.

ODYSSEUS

You are the son of a great and noble man.
When I was young, I held my tongue back
and let my hand do my work.
Now, as you're tested by life--as men live it--
you will see as I have that everywhere
it is our words that win, and not our deeds.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What are your orders, apart from telling lies?

ODYSSEUS

I order you to capture him,
to take him with trickery, however deceitful.

NEOPTOLEMOS

And why not by persuasion
after telling him the truth?

ODYSSEUS

Persuasion is impossible. So is force.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Is he so sure of his strength?

ODYSSEUS

Yes, if he carries his unswerving arrows,
black death's escorts.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Even to meet him, then, is unsafe.

ODYSSEUS

Not if you win him over by guile,
as I have said.

NEOPTOLEMOS

And you do not find such lying disgusting?

ODYSSEUS

Not if a lie ends with our salvation.

NEOPTOLEMOS

How could one say such things
and keep a straight face?

ODYSSEUS

What you do is for our gain.
He who hesitates is lost.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What good would it do me for him to come to Troy?

ODYSSEUS

Only Philoktetes can conquer the city.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Then I will not take it after all,
as I have been promised.

ODYSSEUS

Not without his arrows, nor they without you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Then I must have them, if what you say is true.

ODYSSEUS

You will bring back two prizes, if only you'll act.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What are they? If I know,
I will not refuse the deed.

ODYSSEUS

You will be called  wise because of your trick,
and brave for the sack of Troy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Then let it be so. I will do what you order,
putting aside my sense of shame.

ODYSSEUS

Do you remember all the counsel I have given?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Every word of it. I will follow it all.

ODYSSEUS

Stay here at the cave and wait for him.
I will leave so he doesn't know I have been here.
I will take the guard and go back to the ship;
if I think you're in trouble I will send him back,
disguised as a merchant sailor, a captain.
Whatever story he tells you, use it to advantage.
I am going now. The rest is up to you.
May our guides be Hermes, who instructs us in guile,
and Athena, goddess of victory, goddess of our cities,
who aids me at all times.

CHORUS

I am a stranger in a foreign land.
What shall I say to Philoktetes? What shall I hide?
Tell me. Knowledge that surpasses all others' knowledge
and greatest wisdom falls to him who rules
with Zeus's divine scepter.
To you, child, this ancient strength has come,
all the power of your ancestors. Tell me
what must be done to serve you well.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Look now, without any fear:
he sleeps on the seacliff,
so take courage.
When he awakes it will be terrible.
Muster up your courage, and aid me then.
Follow my lead. Help as you can.

CHORUS

As you command, my lord Neoptolemos.
My duty to you is always first in my thoughts.
My eye is fixed on your best interests.
Now show me the place that he inhabits,
and where he sleeps.
I should know this lest he take me in ambush.
I am frightened and yet fascinated,
as though by a snake or a scorpion's lair.
Where does he live? Where does he sleep?
Where does he walk?
Is he inside or outside?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Look. You will see a cave with two mouths.
That is his house.
That is his rocky sleeping-place.

CHORUS

Where is he now, the unlucky man?

NEOPTOLEMOS

It is clear to me that he claws his way
to find food nearby.
He struggles now to bring down birds with his arrows,
to fuel this wretched way of life.
He knows no balm to heal his wounds.

CHORUS

I pity him for all his woes,
for his distress, for his loneliness,
with no countryman at his side;
he is accursed, always alone,
brought down by bitter illness;
he wanders, distraught,
thrown off balance by simple needs.
How can he withstand such ceaseless misfortune?

O, the violent snares laid out by the gods!
O, the unhappy human race,
living always on the edge,
always in excess.
He might have been a well-born man,
second to none of the noble Greek houses.
Now he has no part of the good life,
and he lies alone, apart from others,
among spotted deer and shaggy, wild goats.
His mind is fixed on pain and hunger.
He groans in anguish,
and only a babbling echo answers,
poured out from afar,
in answer to his lamentations.

NEOPTOLEMOS

None of this amazes me.
It is the work of divine Fate,
if I understand rightly.
Savage Chryse set these sufferings on him,
the share of sufferings he must now endure.
His torments are not random.
The gods, surely, must heap them on him,
so that he cannot bend the invincible bow
until the right time comes, decreed by Zeus,
and as it is promised, Troy is made to fall.

CHORUS

Be quiet, boy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What is it?

CHORUS

A clear groan---
the steadfast companion of one walking in pain.
Where is it?
Now comes a noise:
a man writhes along his path,
from afar comes the sigh of a burdened man---
the cry has carried.

Pay attention, boy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

To what?

CHORUS

To my second explanation. He is not so far away.
He is inside his cave. He is not walking abroad
to his panpipe's doleful song,
like a shepherd wandering with his flocks.
Rather he has bumped his wounded leg and shouts
as if to someone far away,
as if to someone he has seen at the harbor.
The cry he makes is terrible.

PHILOKTETES

You there, you strangers:
who are you who have landed from the sea
on an island without houses or fair harbor?
From what country should I think you,
and guess it correctly? You look Greek to me.
You wear Greek clothes, and I love to see them.
I want to hear you speak my tongue.
Do not shun me, amazed
to face a man who has become so wild.
Pity one who is damned and alone,
wasted away by his sufferings.
Speak. Speak, if you come as friends.
Answer me. It is unreasonable
not to answer each other's questions.

NEOPTOLEMOS

We are Greeks. You wanted to know.

PHILOKTETES

O, beloved tongue! I understand you!
That I should hear Greek words after so many years!
Who are you, boy? Who sent you? What brought you?
What urged you here? What lucky wind?
Answer. Let me know who you are.

NEOPTOLEMOS

My people are from wavebound Skyros, an island.
I am sailing homeward.
I am called Neoptolemos, Achilles's son.
Now you know everything.

PHILOKTETES

Son of a man whom I once loved,
son of my beloved country,
nursed by ancient Lykomedes---
what business brought you here?
Where is it that you sail from?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I sail from Troy.

PHILOKTETES

What? You sail away from Troy?
You were not there with us at the start.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Did you take part in that misery?

PHILOKTETES

Then you do not know who stands before you?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I have never seen you before. How could I know you?

PHILOKTETES

You do not know my name?
The fame my woes have given me?
The men who brought me to my ruin?

NEOPTOLEMOS

You see one who knows nothing of your story.

PHILOKTETES

Then I am truly damned. The gods must surely hate me
for not even a rumor to have come to Greece
of how I live here.
The wicked men who abandoned me
keep their secret, then, and laugh,
while the disease that dwells within me grows,
and grows stronger.
My son, child of great Achilles,
you may yet have heard of me somehow:
I am Philoktetes, Poias's son,
the master of Herakles's weapons.
Agamemnon, Menelaos, and Odysseus
marooned me here, with no one to help me,
as I wasted away with a savage disease,
struck down by a viper's hideous bite.

After I was bitten, we put in here
on the way from Chryse to rejoin the fleet
and they cast me ashore.
After our rough passage, they were glad to see me
fall asleep on the seacliffs, inside this cave.
Then they went off, leaving with me
rags and breadcrumbs, and few of each.
May the same soon befall them.

Think of it, child: how I awoke
to find them gone and myself left alone.
Think of how I cried, how I cursed myself,
when I knew my ship had gone off with them,
and not a man was left to help me
overcome this illness.
I could see nothing before me but grief and pain,
and those in abundance.

Time ran its course.
I have had to make my own life,
to be my own servant in this tiny cave.
I seek out birds to fill my stomach,
and shoot them down.
After I let loose a tautly drawn bolt,
I drag myself along on this stinking foot.
When I had to drink the water that pours from this spring,
in icy winter, I had to break up wood,
crippled as I am,
and melt the ice alone.
I dragged myself around and did it.
And if the fire went out, I had to sit,
and grind stone against stone
until a spark sprang up to save my life.
This roof, if I have fire, at least gives me a home,
gives me all that I need to stay alive
except release from my anguish.

Come, child, let me tell you of this island.
No one comes here willingly.
There is no anchorage here, nor any place
to land, profit in trade, and be received.
Intelligent people know not to come here,
but sometimes they do, against their will.
In the long time I have been here, it was bound to happen.
When those people put in, they pitied me---
or pretended to, at least---and gave me new clothes
and a bit of food. But when I asked for a homeward passage,
they would never take me with them.

It is my tenth year of hunger and the ravaging illness
that I feed with my flesh.
The Atreids and Odysseus did this to me.
May the Olympian gods give them pain in return.

CHORUS

I am like those who came here before.
I pity you, unlucky Philoktetes.

NEOPTOLEMOS

And I am a witness to your words.
I know you speak truly, for I have known them,
the evil Atreids and violent Odysseus.

PHILOKTETES

Do you too have a claim
against the all-destroying house of Atreus?
Have they made you suffer? Is that why you are angry?

NEOPTOLEMOS

May the anger I carry be avenged by this hand,
so that Mycenae and Sparta, too, may know
that mother Skyros bears brave men.

PHILOKTETES

Well spoken, boy.
What wrath have they incited in you?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Philoketetes, I will tell you everything,
although it pains me to remember.
When I came to Troy, they heaped dishonor on me,
after Achilles had met his death in battle....

PHILOKTETES

Tell me no more until I am sure I've heard rightly:
is Achilles, son of Peleus, dead?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Yes, dead, shot down by no living man,
but by a god, so I've been told.
He was laid low by Lord Apollo's arrows.

PHILOKTETES

The two were noble, the killer and the killed.
I am not sure what to do now---
to hear out your story or mourn your father.

NEOPTOLEMOS

It seems to me that your woes are enough
without taking on the woes of others.

PHILOKTETES

You speak rightly. Now tell me more,
what they did---that is, how they insulted you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

They came for me in their mighty warships
with painted prows and streaming battle flags.
Odysseus and my father's tutor were the ones.
They came with a story, true or a lie,
that the gods had decreed, since my father had died,
that I alone could storm Troy's walls.
So they said.
You can be sure that I lost no time
in gathering my things and sailing with them,
out of love for my father, whom I wanted to see
before the earth swallowed him.
I had never seen him alive.
And I would be proved brave if I captured Troy.

We had a good wind. In two days we made bitter Sigeion.
A mass of soldiers raised a cheer,
saying dead Achilles still walked among them.
They had not yet buried him.
I wept for my father. And then I went
to the Atreids, my father's supposed friends,
as was fitting, and I asked for my father's weapons
and his other things.
They said with feigned sorrow, "Son of Achilles,
you may have the other things,
but not Achilles's weapons.
Those now belong to Laertes's son."
I leapt up then, crying in grief and anger,
and said, "You bastards, how dare you
give the things that are mine to other men
without asking me first?"

Then Odysseus, who happened to be there, said, "Listen, boy.
What they did was right. After all, I was the one
who rescued them and your father's body."
Enraged, I cursed him with all the curses I could think of,
leaving nothing out, curses that would be set in motion
if he were truly to rob me.
Odysseus is not a quarrelsome man,
but what I said stung him. He replied,
"Boy, you're a newcomer. You have been at home,
out of harm's way. You judge me too harshly.
You cannot keep a civil tongue.
For all that, you will not take his weapons home."
You see, I took abuse from both sides. I lost
the things that were mine, and I sailed home.
Odysseus, the bastard son of bastards,
robbed me. But I blame him less than the generals.
They rule whole cities and a mighty army.
Bad men become so by watching bad teachers.
I have told you all. May he who hates the Atreids
be as dear to the gods as he is to me.

CHORUS

O mountainous, all-nourishing Mother Earth,
Mother of Zeus, our lord, himself,
you who range the golden Paktolos,
Mother of pain and sorrow, I begged you,
Blessed Mother, borne by bull-slaying lions,
on that day when the arrogant Atreids
insulted him, when they gave away his weapons
to the son of Laertes.
Hail, goddess, the highest object of our awe.

PHILOKTETES

You have sailed here, clearly, with a just cause of pain.
Your share of grief almost matches mine. What you say
harmonizes with what I know of them---
the evil doings of the Atreids and Odysseus.
I know that Odysseus spins out lies
with his evil tongue, which he uses
to create all manner of injustice;
he brings no good to pass, I know.
Still, it amazes me to learn
that Ajax, seeing these things, should permit them.

NEOPTOLEMOS

He is dead now, friend. If he lived,
they would never have stolen the weapons from me.

PHILOKTETES

So Ajax, too, is dead.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Dead. Think of it.

PHILOKTETES

It saddens me. But the son of Tydeus, and Odysseus,
whom Sisyphos, I have heard, sold to Laertes,
they who merited death are still alive.

NEOPTOLEMOS

You are right, of course. They are flourishing.
They live in high glory among the Greeks.

PHILOKTETES

And my old friend, that honest man, Nestor of Pylos?
Does he still live?
He used to contain their evil with his wise counsel.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Nestor has fallen on evil times.
His son, Antilochos, who was with him, is dead.

PHILOKTETES

O!
You have told me of two deaths that hurt me most.
What can I hope for, now that Ajax and Antilochos
are dead and in the ground, while Odysseus walks,
while he should be the one who is dead?

NEOPTOLEMOS

That one is a clever wrestler. Still,
even the clever stumble.

PHILOKTETES

Tell me, by the gods, how was it with Patroklos,
your father's most beloved friend?

NEOPTOLEMOS

He was dead, too. I will tell you in a word what happened:
War never takes a bad man on purpose,
but good men always.

PHILOKTETES

You are right. Let me ask you, then, of one who is worthless,
but cunning and clever with the words he uses.

NEOPTOLEMOS

You can mean only Odysseus.

PHILOKTETES

No, not him. I mean Thersites,
who was never content to speak just once,
although no one allowed him to speak at all.
Is he alive?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I do not know him, but I have heard that he lives.

PHILOKTETES

He would be. No evil man has died.
The gods, it seems, must care for them well.
It pleases them to keep villains and traitors
out of death's hands; but they always send
good men out of the living world.
How can I make sense of what goes on,
when, praising the gods, I discover that they're evil?

NEOPTOLEMOS

For my part, Philoktetes, I will be more cautious.
I'll keep watch on the Atreids
and on Troy from afar.
I will have no part of their company,
where the worse is stronger than the better,
where noble men die while cowards rule.
I shall not acquiesce to the will of such men.
Rocky Skyros will do very well
for the future. I'll be content to stay at home.

Now I'll go to my ship. Philoktetes,
may the gods keep you. Farewell, then,
and may the gods lift this illness from you
as you have long wished. Let us be off, men,
to make ready for sailing
when the gods permit it.

PHILOKTETES

Are you leaving already?

NEOPTOLEMOS

The weather is clearing.
Opportunity knocks but once, you know.
We must be provisioned and ready when it does.

PHILOKTETES

I beg you by your father, by your dear mother,
by all you have ever loved at home:
do not leave me here
to live on in suffering, now that you have seen me,
and heard what others have said about me.
I am not important to you.
Think of me anyway.
I know that I will be a troublesome cargo for you,
but accept that.
To you and your noble kind, to be cruel
is shameful; to be decent, honorable.
If you leave me, it will make for an awful story.
But if you take me, you'll have the best of men's praise,
that is, if I live to see Oeta's fields.
Come. Your trouble will last scarcely a day.
You can manage that.
Take me and stow me where you want,
in the hold, on the prow, on the stern, anywhere
that I will least offend you.
Swear by Zeus, lord of suppliants,
boy, that you will take me.
I am trying to kneel before you, a cripple,
lame. Do not leave me in this lonely place,
where no one passes by.
Take me to your home,
or to the harbor of Euboean Chalkis.
It is a short journey from there to Oeta,
to the ridges of Trachis and smooth-flowing Spercheios.
Show me there to my beloved father.
I have long feared that he is dead,
or else he would have come for me:
I sent prayerful messages to him through travelers
who happened along here, begging him
to come himself and take me home.
He is dead, then, or more likely
the messengers held me in little regard,
as messengers do, and hurried along to their homes.
In you I have a guard and a herald.
Save me. Have pity.
Look how dangerously we mortals live,
experiencing good, experiencing evil.
If you are out of harm's way, expect horrible things,
and when you live well, take extra care
lest you be caught napping and be destroyed.

CHORUS

Take pity on him, lord.
He has told us of many horrible torments.
May such troubles fall on none of my friends.
If, lord, you hate the terrible Atreids,
put their treatment of him to your advantage.
I would carry him, as he has asked,
away with you on your swift-running ship,
fleeing the gods' cruel punishment.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Be sure you are not too quick to plead,
that when you have had your fill of the company
that his illness will provide you,
you do not stand by your words.

CHORUS

No. You will not be able to reproach me with that
and still speak truly.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Then I would be ashamed
to be less willing than you to serve this man.
If you are sure, let us sail quickly.
Make the man hurry. I won't refuse him my ship.
May the gods keep us safe in leaving this land
and give us safe passage where we wish to sail.

PHILOKTETES

O blessed day and dearest of men,
and you, friend sailors, how can I make it clear to you,
how closely you have bound me in your friendship.
Let us go, my son. But first let us bow down
and kiss the earth in gratitude,
the earth of my home that is no home.
Look inside and you will see
how brave I must be by my very nature.
To endure even the sight of such a place
would have been too much for most men.
But I have had to learn to withstand its evils.

CHORUS

Wait, and watch!  Two men approach,
one of our crew and a stranger to me---
let us hear from them. Then you may go inside.

TRADER

Son of Achilles, I ordered this sailor,
who was guarding your ship with two other men,
to tell me where you were.
I came to this island not meaning to.
Accident drove me to this place.
I sail as captain of a cargo vessel
from Ilium, to a place not far away---
Peparethos, rich in grapes and wine.
I learned that these men are your companions
and decided to stay until I'd spoken with you
and received my reward.
Perhaps you do not know your own concerns,
the new things the Greeks have in store for you,
no longer mere plans, but onrushing actions.

NEOPTOLEMOS

A blessing on you for thinking of me.
If I do not grow evil, your concern will keep you my friend.
Tell me more of what you said:
I want to know more of these new Greek tricks.

TRADER

Phoenix and Theseus's sons have sailed from Troy
and are following you with an armed flotilla.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Do they plan to take me with violence
or persuade me to return with them?

TRADER

I do not know. I tell you only what I have heard.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Are Phoenix and his friends so eager
to jump when the Atreids tell them to?

TRADER

They have already jumped.
They're not wasting a second.

NEOPTOLEMOS

And Odysseus would not bring the message himself?
Does some fear now act upon his spirit?

TRADER

When I left, he and Tydeus's son
were off chasing down another man.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Who is the man they now pursue?

TRADER

He is---wait. First tell me
who that man is, and tell me quietly.

NEOPTOLEMOS

The man is great Philoktetes, friend.

TRADER

Then ask no more questions. Get out of here,
and quickly. Run away from this place.

PHILOKTETES

What is he saying to you, boy?
Why does he bargain in the shadows,
hiding his words from me?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I'm not sure what he means by all this.
But he'll have to speak openly to all of us.

TRADER

Son of Achilles, do not upbraid me
before your men. I do much for them
and get much in return,
as a poor man must.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am the Atreids' enemy.
He also hates them and so is my greatest friend.
You have come in friendship,
and you must speak openly.
Do not hide what you have heard.

TRADER

Think of what you're doing, boy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I have been thinking.

TRADER

Then I will make this your responsibility.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Very well. Now speak.

TRADER

The two men you have heard of,
Tydeus's son and Odysseus,
hunt for Philoktetes.
They are bound by oath to bring him back
by persuasion or naked violence.
And all the Greeks heard Odysseus swear to this,
since he loudly boasted of sure success.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What can they hope to win, those men,
to turn their thoughts after so many years
to Philoktetes, whom they made an outcast?
Do they miss him now? Or have the gods
brought vengeance upon them, since they punish crime?

TRADER

I will tell you. You may not know this story.
There was a seer from a noble family,
one of Priam's sons, in fact, called Helenos.
He was captured one night on a reconnaissance
by Odysseus himself, who bears all our curses
as a badge of dishonor.
Odysseus tricked him, and paraded him
before the whole Greek army.
Helenos then poured out a flood of prophesy,
especially about Troy, and how the Greeks
would never take it until they were able
to persuade Philoktetes to come to their aid,
after he had been rescued from this place.
The minute Odysseus heard him say this,
he promised to fetch this man,
either by persuasion or by force.
If he failed, he said, they could punish him.
Boy, now you know
why I've urged you and those whom you care for to leave.

PHILOKTETES

Ah! He swore he would persuade me
to sail off with him, the bastard?
He'd sooner persuade me to come back from the grave,
when I am dead, to rise up,
as his father did.

TRADER

I don't know that story. I must leave you now.
May the gods help you all.

PHILOKTETES

Isn't it shameful, boy, that Odysseus
thinks his words are wondrous enough to persuade me
to let him cart me back to Troy, and parade me too
before the whole Greek army?
I would sooner trust my enemy, the viper that bit me
and crippled me at Chryse.
Let him try what he will, now that I know he's coming.
Let us go now, boy, and hope
that a great seaswell will rise and crest
and keep our ship from Odysseus's.
To be quick at the right occasion, you know,
makes for untroubled sleep when work is done.

NEOPTOLEMOS

When the headwind dies down, we will sail.
The powers of the air work against us now.

PHILOKTETES

Whenever you flee evil men, that is good sailing.

NEOPTOLEMOS

True, but the wind is against them as well.

PHILOKTETES

In the minds of pirates, no wind is against them
so long as they can steal and pillage.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Let us go away, then. Fetch from your cave
the few things you most need or want.

PHILOKTETES

I do need a few things. I don't have many to choose from.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Things that we do not have on board?

PHILOKTETES

I have an herb to ease my pain,
to put it to sleep.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Get it, then. What else do you want?

PHILOKTETES

Any arrows I may have left lying around.
I cannot leave any for another man to find.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Is that your famous bow?

PHILOKTETES

Yes. I have never set it aside.

NEOPTOLEMOS

May I hold it? May I cradle it in my hands?

PHILOKTETES

Only you. Hold it,
and take whatever is useful to you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I would love to hold it, if that is no violation,
if it is lawful. If not, let it be.

PHILOKTETES

You speak piously, child. It is lawful,
for you alone have granted me
the light of the sun that shines above us
and the sight of Oeta, my beloved land,
the sight of my father, and of my dear friends.
You have taken me away from my enemies,
who stood above me. Courage, boy.
Hold this bow, then give it back to me,
and proclaim to everyone that you alone could hold it,
a merit won by strength of character.
That is how I won it myself:
for an act of kindness long ago.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am glad I found you and became your friend.
One who knows how to give and receive kindness
is a friend worth more than any possession.
Go inside.

PHILOKTETES

Come inside with me. My sickness desires
to have you alongside as its helper.

CHORUS

I have heard the story, although I did not see it myself,
of the one who stole up to Zeus's bed, where Hera slept;
how Zeus caught him and chained him to a whirring fiery wheel.
But I have seen or heard of no other man
whom destiny treated with such enmity
as it did Philoktetes, who killed no one,
nor robbed, but lived justly,
a fair man to all who treated him fairly,
and who fell into evils he did not deserve.
It amazes me that he, alone,
listening to the rushing waves pounding on the shore,
could cling to life
when life brought him pain, and so many tears.

He was crippled and had no one near him.
He was made to suffer, and no one could ease his burden,
answer his cries,
mourn with him the savage, blood-poisoning illness
that was devouring him.
He had no neighbor to gather soft leaves
to staunch the bleeding, hideous sore
that ran, suppurating, maggoty, on his foot.
He writhed and scrawled upon the hard ground,
crying like a motherless child,
to wherever he might find relief
when the spirit-killing illness attacked him.

He gathered no grain sown in holy earth,
nor the food that living men enjoy,
except when he shot his feathered arrows
and filled his stomach with what he took.
In ten years, he has had no succoring wine;
he searched for puddles and drank from them instead.
But now fortune has come with victory for him. He has found
the son of a great man, who will himself be great,
when this is over. Our lord will carry him over the seas,
after these ten years, to his father's home
in the land of the nymphs of Malia,
by the banks of sweet-running Spercheios,
where Herakles the archer ascended to Olympos,
bronze-armored, engulfed in holy fire,
there above the hills of Oeta.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Come on, then, if you want to. Why do you stand there,
seized by silence?

PHILOKTETES

Ah! Ah! Ah!

NEOPTOLEMOS

What is it?

PHILOKTETES

Nothing to fear. Come now, boy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Does your illness now bring you pain?

PHILOKTETES

No. I seem to be better now. O, gods!

NEOPTOLEMOS

Why do you cry out to the gods in anguish?

PHILOKTETES

I cry that they might come and soothe me.
Ah! Ah! Ah!

NEOPTOLEMOS

What is it? Tell me! I can see you're in pain.
Do not keep it from me.

PHILOKTETES

I am destroyed, child. I am unable
to hide this evil from you any longer.
Aaaah! Aaaah! It sears through my blood!
I am destroyed! I am being devoured!
Aaaah! Aaaah! Aaaah!
By the gods, boy, if you have a sword,
cut off my foot! Cut it off now! You cannot save me!
Do it, boy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What is this terrible thing that attacks you,
and makes you scream in such misery?

PHILOKTETES

Don't you know?

NEOPTOLEMOS

What is it?

PHILOKTETES

How can you not know? Aaaah! Aaaah!

NEOPTOLEMOS

It is the terrible pain the disease sets upon you.

PHILOKTETES

Terrible indeed, more than words can tell. Pity me.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What should I do?

PHILOKTETES

Do not be afraid. Do not leave me.
The disease comes and goes, perhaps when it has gorged itself
in its other wanderings.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Poor man. You have endured such miseries,
and still you live on. Should I help you up?
Do you want me to hold you?

PHILOKTETES

Of all things, do not touch me. Take my bow instead,
as you asked a while ago, until my pain
diminishes. Keep the bow, keep it safe, my boy.
Sleep overtakes me when the spell has passed;
until then I'll have pain.
You must let me sleep for a while.
If my enemies come while I lie sleeping,
I beg you, by the gods, do not give up my bow,
willingly or unwillingly, by force or some trick.
If you do, boy, you'll be a murderer,
your own and mine, your suppliant.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Do not worry. I will be on my guard.
No one but we will touch your bow.
Give it to me now, and may the gods' fortune go with it.

PHILOKTETES

Take it, boy. Pray to the gods, lest they be jealous,
and the bow become your sorrow, as it has been mine
and its former master's.

NEOPTOLEMOS

O gods, grant what he asks, and grant us also
a swift journey home on a sheltering wind,
home, where Zeus bids us to go.

PHILOKTETES

Your prayer, I'm afraid, will be in vain.
The murderous blood is running now
from its deep well. I expect a new attack.
It comes. Aaaah! Aaaah! It comes!
O, foot, you do me evil!
You have the bow, boy. You know what is happening.
Do not leave me! Aaaah! Aaaah!
O, Odysseus, I wish it were you,
I wish it were your spirit that these pains now gripped!
Aaaah!
Agamemnon, Menelaus, I hope it is you,
your two bodies, generals,
that this savage pain holds for as many years.

Death, black death, how can I call on you again,
and you not come to take me away?
Boy, take my body and burn it away
on a Lemnian pyre, in the volcano's heart.
I did this for a man, a child of Zeus,
and won the weapons you now keep safe.
Will you do it, boy? Why don't you speak?
Where are you, boy?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I grieve for you, sir. Your pain is mine.

PHILOKTETES

No, boy, be brave. The disease
comes quickly and leaves me with equal speed.
I beg you, do not leave me here.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Don't worry. We will stay here with you.

PHILOKTETES

You'll stay?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Surely.

PHILOKTETES

I find it unfitting to make you swear to it.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I cannot leave this place without you.

PHILOKTETES

Give me your hand on that.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I give it to you, and with you it stays.

PHILOKTETES

Now take me away.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What do you mean?

PHILOKTETES

Up there...

NEOPTOLEMOS

What madness is now upon you?
Why do you look at the summit above us?

PHILOKTETES

Let me go!

NEOPTOLEMOS

Where?

PHILOKTETES

Let me go.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I cannot allow it.

PHILOKTETES

Touch me, and you kill me.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am letting go. You are saner now.

PHILOKTETES

O Earth, take my body from me now.
The illness no longer allows me to stand.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Soon, I think, sleep will overcome him.
He nods his head.
Sweat drenches his body, and a black
bitter flood of pus and blood has broken
and runs from his foot.
Let us leave him to sleep, friends.
Let us leave him quietly.

CHORUS

Sleep, stranger to pain and suffering,
descend upon us kindly now.
Cover his eyes with your radiance,
come down, Healer, come down.

Boy, look now at where you stand,
at where you are going, at what I hold for the future.
Do you see him?
He sleeps. Why are we waiting?
The right moment decides everything
and wins many sudden victories.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Yes, he hears nothing. But we have needlessly hunted,
captured nothing if we take the bow, and sail without him.
The crown of victory belongs to the one
whom Zeus commanded that we bring back.
A boast that cannot be carried out
is a lie. That boast is a shameful disgrace.

CHORUS

Zeus will attend to such things, my boy.
Answer me now;
whisper softly.
The sleep of a sick man, aware of all things,
sees all. It is a sleep that is no sleep.

Think as far ahead as you can
of how you might secretly do as I say.
You know of whom I am thinking now.
If your decision is the same as his,
then anyone with eyes can see trouble ahead.
A fair wind is rising.
The man is blind and helpless now,
stretched out in the darkness---
he is master not of hand, not of foot, not of anything.
He is one lying down in Hades's chambers.
Look to see if the time is right
for what you intend:
the best work is that which causes no fear.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Quiet, now! Have you lost your senses?
The man's eyes are opening. He raises his head.

PHILOKTETES

Blessed is the light that follows sleep,
blessed is a friend's protection.
These things are beyond my wildest hopes,
that you would pity me and care for my sorrows,
that you would remain by me and endure my woes.
The Atreids, the noble generals, would not do this.
They would have no tolerance for my distress.
Your nature is truly noble, for it comes from noble parents.
You took this burden easily, a burden heavy with howls
and foul smells. Now I can put aside this illness.
I can rest. Raise me up in your arms, my boy,
put me on my feet, and let me gather my strength,
so that we can go to your ship
and sail off immediately.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am glad to see you
with open eyes, unpained, alive.
Your symptoms seemed those of a dead man,
when taken with your sufferings.
Arise now. If you wish,
these men will lift you.
They will do all they can for you
now that you and I are shipmates.

PHILOKTETES

Thank you. But lift me up yourself,
as you once suggested. Do not trouble the men.
Let the stench not disturb them so early on---
my being aboard will be bother enough.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Stand up, then. Hold on to me.

PHILOKTETES

No need. I am used to it.
Once I am up, I can manage.

NEOPTOLEMOS

It is time.
What must I do?

PHILOKTETES

Your words stray off course. What is it, boy?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I do not know where to turn my powerless words.

PHILOKTETES

Powerless? Do not say such things.

NEOPTOLEMOS

But I am mired in powerless thoughts.

PHILOKTETES

Does this come from nausea
at the sight of my illness?
Does this push you not to take me?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Everything is nauseating to one who casts off his nature
to do things that are out of character.

PHILOKTETES

It would not have been out of character
for your father, the man who gave you your nature,
to help a good man, both in word and in deed.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I will be shown to be evil.
The very thought of it frightens me.

PHILOKTETES

The things you do now are not ignoble.
The words you speak, though, give me pause.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Zeus, what will I do?  Will I twice be proven evil,
hiding what I should not, saying the worst?

PHILOKTETES

If I am not a poor judge, it seems to me
that this man will abandon me, and sail away.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I will not abandon you. It's the trip you'll be making
that will be ample cause for grief.

PHILOKTETES

I do not follow you. What are you saying?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I won't keep it from you any longer. You must sail to Troy,
to the Achaeans, to the armies of the Atreids.

PHILOKTETES

Ah! What are you saying?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Do not groan until you learn.

PHILOKTETES

What must I learn?
What are you planning to do with me?

NEOPTOLEMOS

First, to cure you of this misery. Then
you and I will destroy the Trojan nation.

PHILOKTETES

Is this the truth? Is this what you wanted?

NEOPTOLEMOS

A great need forces these things upon us.
Quell your anger.

PHILOKTETES

I am destroyed. I am betrayed.
Why, stranger, have you done these things?
Give me back my bow.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I cannot. Duty and my own ambition
force me to obey those men who command me.

PHILOKTETES

O fire, o utter terror, o terrible craftsman
of all wickedness, the things you have done to me!
How you have betrayed me! Are you not ashamed
to look down on me, who have kneeled to you,
the suppliant, you bitter ones?

You have taken away my life with my bow.
Return it. I beg you, boy, return it now.
By your ancestral gods, do not take my life.

He does not speak. He merely turns away,
as though he will never give it back.

Caves, promontories, hordes of wild beasts,
rocky headlands, I speak to you now,
for there is no one else to whom I can speak.
You have always been at my side and heard me.
Hear what Achilles's son has done!
He promised to take me home. Instead
he will take me to Troy. He gave me his hand
and then robbed me of my holy bow,
Herakles's bow, the son of Zeus's,
to hold it up to the Greeks and boast
that he had taken it from a strong opponent,
that he had taken it from his prisoner.
He is killing someone who is already dead,
a corpse, a smoky shadow, a ghost. Were I strong
he would not have won. Even so,
he had to trick me to get it away.
I have been tricked, and I am destroyed.
What is left for me to do?

Return my bow. Recall your nature. No?
You are silent, and I am nothing.

Double-doored rock, I come back to you
unarmed, unable to capture my sustenance.
Within that cave I will wither, unable
to bring down birds or beasts from the mountains
with my bow. Now I will be the food of those who fed me.
Those I hunted once will hunt me now.
I will repay with my life the lives I took
because of the hypocrite I took into my trust,
a boy who seemed to know no evil.

A curse upon you. No, not until I know
if you'll change your mind.
If you will not, may you die in all misery.

CHORUS

What will we do now? Shall we sail away,
or do what he asks us? It is in your hands.

NEOPTOLEMOS

A terrible pity comes over me.
I have felt it all along.

PHILOKTETES

By the gods, do take pity.
Do not put on the mantle of infamy
for having deceived me.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What will I do? I wish I had never left Skyros.
I hate the things that are happening here.

PHILOKTETES

You are not a bad man. By watching others
who are bad you have learned these terrible tricks.
Leave evil to them. Let us sail away.
Return my weapons to me, boy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What will we do now?

ODYSSEUS

You coward, what are you thinking of doing?
Are you not going to give me the bow?

PHILOKTETES

Who is that? Is that Odysseus's voice I hear?

ODYSSEUS

Odysseus's, yes. Now you can see me clearly.

PHILOKTETES

I am truly betrayed, truly destroyed.
It is all becoming clear to me:
It was he who tricked me and robbed me of my weapons.

ODYSSEUS

None other. I proclaim it to you now.

PHILOKTETES

Give me my bow. Give it to me now, boy.

ODYSSEUS

He could not do that even if he wanted to.
You must come with the bow, too, or these men will take you.

PHILOKTETES

Your evil nature is beyond belief.
Will they take me off against my will?

ODYSSEUS

If you don't crawl along on your own, they will.

PHILOKTETES

O land of Lemnos and the all-powerful fire,
created by Hephaistos in the great volcano,
must I submit to this?
Must I let him force me to go with them?

ODYSSEUS

Zeus rules this island. Zeus has ordered this.
I am his servant. I obey his commands.

PHILOKTETES

O despicable man, the lies you spin! You call on the gods
and you make the gods liars.

ODYSSEUS

The gods speak truly. This course must be followed.

PHILOKTETES

I say no.

ODYSSEUS

And I say yes. You must obey.

PHILOKTETES

Clearly we are slaves, and not freeborn men.
This is what our fathers brought us up to be.

ODYSSEUS

No, as equals of the noblest men, with whom
you must storm Troy's walls
and demolish the city, as destiny proclaims.

PHILOKTETES

No, I'll do anything but that, Odysseus.
I still have my seacliff.

ODYSSEUS

What did you have in mind?

PHILOKTETES

To throw myself from the rocks above
and break myself on the rocks below.

ODYSSEUS

Take him! Keep him from jumping!

PHILOKTETES

O hands, what you suffer for lack of a bowstring,
the prey of that man!

You whose thoughts are sick and slavelike,
how you have hunted me!
How you tricked me, how you stole up
with this boy as a shield, unknown to me.
He deserved a better master than you.
He is at a loss to do anything but what he's told,
and he suffers now for his mischief
and the things he has brought upon my head.
Your evil, harmful soul has taught him
to be a wily criminal,
unwilling and unsuited though he was for that.
Now you have bound me and plan to take me
off from this place where you had cast me away,
friendless, homeless, a living corpse.

I curse you. I have cursed you many times before,
but the gods have granted me nothing I want,
and so you live happily, while I live in this pain,
and you and the Atreids mock my anguish,
those two generals, for whom you perform this deed.
You were yoked to the cause by deceit and force,
while I willingly went with my seven ships,
willingly to dishonor and my own destruction,
to being cast away on this lonely shore.
You say they did it, and they blame you.

Why must you take me?
I am nothing. For you, I've been dead for years.
Blasphemous man, could it be I don't stink now;
am I no longer a cripple? If I sail with you,
how can you offer burnt sacrifices?
How can you pour your libations to the gods?
That was your reason for abandoning me.

May a horrible death overtake you.
It will for your crimes against me, if the gods
still care for justice. I know they do,
for you would not have come for my sake alone;
the gods' urging must have brought you here.
Ancestral land and you gods who look on mortal crimes,
take vengeance on these men when the time is right,
take vengeance on them all, if you pity me.
If I could see them die, then I could also dream
that the sickness within me has fled my body.

CHORUS

He is bitter, this stranger; his words are, too,
for they do not bend to suffering.

ODYSSEUS

There is no time to say the things I should,
and there are many things I could say to him.
Just this: I am a man who responds to occasion
and adapts himself to the situation.
In times of crisis among good and just men,
I can be the noblest-minded of all.
To win is my overarching wish---
except against you. For you I will stand aside.

Let him go. We don't need him.
Let him stay in this place. We have his bow.
Teuker is with us, and he is skillful,
and I can master those weapons too.
I aim straight as well. Why would we need you?
Goodbye. Goodbye to Lemnos.
Let's go. Perhaps soon I'll win
the prize and fame that belong to you.

PHILOKTETES

Oh, what will I do? Will you stand before the Greeks
cloaked in the glory of my weapons?

ODYSSEUS

Don't speak to me. We are leaving now.

PHILOKTETES

You have nothing to say to me, son of Achilles?
Will you leave without a word?

ODYSSEUS

Come along now, boy. Don't look at him,
even though your spirit prompts you to.
That may destroy the advantage we have won.

PHILOKTETES

You sailors, will you leave me?
Do you have no pity?

CHORUS

The young lord is our master. His words are ours.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Odysseus will chide me for pitying him.
You men stay here until the other sailors make ready
and we have prayed to the gods of this place.
Philoktetes may think better of us.
Let us go, Odysseus. You men, come quickly
as soon as we call for you.

PHILOKTETES

Rock hollow, cave, sunny, icy,
It is true that I was not meant to leave you.
You will be a witness to my life and death.
Rock walls, filled with my cries of anguish,
what will my daily ration be now?
What hope have I of dealing with my fate,
now that the birds that fled from me above
will come down through the winds to destroy me?
I have no strength left.

CHORUS

You brought this on yourself, unbending man.
You could have found a way out
when it was possible to make a sensible choice,
but you took the worse over the better fate.

PHILOKTETES

Sorrow and sadness are mine. I am broken
by suffering, and now I must live alone;
I will live and die in this place.
I cannot feed myself by my winged arrows
or my strong hands. Unexpectedly,
his tricky words overtook my judgment.
I wish the one who set this trap
were given pains to match my own.

CHORUS

The gods' will brought you down, not guile,
not tricks in which I have had a hand.
Let loose your hatred, set aside your curses.
I have only the fear that you'll refuse my friendship.

PHILOKTETES

He sits laughing on the shores of the wine-dark sea.
He holds in his hands the bow that sustained me,
which no mortal but I had ever touched.
Beloved bow, made by caring hands,
the prize of Herakles, who'll never use you again,
if you could see, you would pity me.
You have a new master, a guileful man.
He will bend you now.
You will know treachery, know my hated enemy,
and know countless evils rising from his deceit.

CHORUS

One should take care to say what is just,
and having said it, keep his tongue from ire.
Odysseus follows the orders of many,
and he has done this in obedience to his friends.

PHILOKTETES

O birds, o beasts that feed upon the hills,
you no longer need run away from my cave.
I no longer have my killing weapons.
Come down. The time is right for you to feed
on my ravaged, quivering body;
I will soon die. How can I keep myself alive?
Who can live on breezes and not earthly food?

CHORUS

By the gods, if you still hold the gods in respect,
come to a stranger who approaches with good heart.
Think closely of what you are doing.
It is up to you to flee your destruction.
To feed fate with your flesh is pitiful.
Your body will never learn to endure the pains,
the ten thousand pains of the sickness possessing you.

PHILOKTETES

You pour salt on old wounds. Still, you are better
than any of those who came to me before.
Why have you also wounded me?

CHORUS

What do you mean?

PHILOKTETES

You wanted to take me to hateful Troy.

CHORUS

I think that is best.

PHILOKTETES

Then leave me, and now.

CHORUS

That is good news indeed.
I'll willingly obey your command.
Let us go, men, back to our stations.

PHILOKTETES

No, strangers, by the gods, stay here!
I beg you!

CHORUS

Be still.

PHILOKTETES

I beg you, stay with me.

CHORUS

Why do you beseech us now?

PHILOKTETES

I am destroyed.
My foot, what will I do with you
for what remains of my life?
Come back to me, friends.

CHORUS

Come back to do what? Have you changed your mind?

PHILOKTETES

It is not just to be angry
when a man driven mad by stormy anguish
speaks thoughtlessly.

CHORUS

Come with us, poor man, as we have asked.

PHILOKTETES

Never. Not even if the lord of lightning
devours me in thunderous fire!
Let Troy be ruined and all those before its walls
who cast me away here in my lameness!
Friends, grant me one last request.

CHORUS

What is it?

PHILOKTETES

If you have a sword, or an axe, or a knife,
then bring it to me.

CHORUS

What will you do with it?

PHILOKTETES

I will cut off my head, cut off my foot,
cut myself apart with my own hand.
My mind wants nothing but death.

CHORUS

Why?

PHILOKTETES

I want to find my father.

CHORUS

Where?

PHILOKTETES

In Hades. Surely he no longer stands in light.
Ancestral city, I wish I could see you,
I who deserted your holy waters
to help the Greeks, my enemies.
I am nothing now.

CHORUS

I should have been back to the ship by now.
Here comes Odysseus
with the son of Achilles.

ODYSSEUS

Why are you returning so quickly, boy?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I hurry to undo the evil I have done.

ODYSSEUS

You speak strangely. What evil is that?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I was wrong to obey you and the generals.

ODYSSEUS

What did we order you to do that was wrong?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I worked guile and deceit, and successfully.

ODYSSEUS

What more do you want now?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Nothing new. I have Philoktetes's bow.

ODYSSEUS

And what will you do with it? I am afraid to ask.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am giving it back to its rightful owner.

ODYSSEUS

You mean you'll return it?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Yes. I got it by shameful tricks.

ODYSSEUS

Do you really mean it?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am telling the truth.

ODYSSEUS

What are you saying, son of Achilles?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Must we go over the same ground twice?

ODYSSEUS

I wish we had not gone over it the first time.

NEOPTOLEMOS

You have heard everything now.

ODYSSEUS

Someone will keep you from doing it.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Who?

ODYSSEUS

The whole Greek army, and I among them.

NEOPTOLEMOS

You are clever, Odysseus, but what you say is not.

ODYSSEUS

Neither your words nor your acts are clever.

NEOPTOLEMOS

But they are just. That is better.

ODYSSEUS

How can it be just to give away
what you have won with my counsel?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I have committed injustice and strayed off course.
I must undo all that.

ODYSSEUS

And you have no fear of what the Greeks will do?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am not afraid of any of you, since I act
with justice. You will not force me.

ODYSSEUS

Then we will fight not Troy, but you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

So be it.

ODYSSEUS

Do you see my hand drawing out this sword?

NEOPTOLEMOS

You'll see me do the same, and right away.

ODYSSEUS

I will leave you to it, then.
I'll return to Troy and tell the Greeks,
and they will come here to punish you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

It is a cautious thing you do. Remain as cautious,
and perhaps you'll keep clear of future danger.

Philoktetes, son of Poias,
come out of your cave. I call on you.

PHILOKTETES

What do you want? Why do you call me?
It bodes ill. Some new trouble is at hand,
some new grief to heap on my miseries.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Be calm. I simply ask that you listen.

PHILOKTETES

I listened to you once, and you spoke well then.
My troubles came from sweet words, when I believed them.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Is it not possible, then, to apologize?

PHILOKTETES

You spoke as smoothly as you do now when you stole my bow,
trustworthy on the surface, but treacherous below.

NEOPTOLEMOS

That is not the case now. Are you resolved
to stay here as before, or will you come with us?

PHILOKTETES

Stop. Your words will be wasted on me.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Are you resolved?

PHILOKTETES

More resolved than words can say.

NEOPTOLEMOS

I wish that I could make you change your mind.
But if my words are pointless, then I am finished.

PHILOKTETES

Your words are useless. You will never win me
with words to your friendship. You have destroyed me
with deceitful talk, and then you come to make speeches,
bastard son of a noble father. A curse on you,
on the Atreids and Odysseus, but especially on you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Curse no more. Take your bow.
I give it back to you now, Philoktetes.

PHILOKTETES

Is this yet another of your tricks?

NEOPTOLEMOS

No. I swear it by almighty Zeus.

PHILOKTETES

Your words are good, if they are true.

NEOPTOLEMOS

They are. Reach out, and take the bow.

ODYSSEUS

I forbid you, as the gods are my witnesses,
in the name of the Atreids and all their armies.

PHILOKTETES

Boy, whose voice is that? Odysseus's?

ODYSSEUS

None other, and very near you now.
I will bring you to wide Troy myself,
against your will, whether or not the boy approves.

PHILOKTETES

You will suffer for your words
if this arrow flies true.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Don't shoot, by the gods!

PHILOKTETES

Let go of my hand now, boy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

No. I will not let go.

PHILOKTETES

Why do you keep me from killing my enemy?

NEOPTOLEMOS

It would not be a brave act for you or me.

PHILOKTETES

The lords of the army, the false heralds of the Greeks,
are cowards in battle, however brave their words.

NEOPTOLEMOS

That may well be. You have your bow.
You have no further cause to be angry with me.

PHILOKTETES

No. You have shown your true, nobly bred nature.
You are the son of Achilles, not Sisyphos.
Your father, when he lived, was the most famous man of all,
and now he is most the famous of the dead.

NEOPTOLEMOS

It pleases me to hear you speak kindly of my father,
and of me. Now listen to what I want from you.
The gods' will is given to us mortals, and we
must bear that will of necessity.
And those who choose to clutch their miseries
and not release them deserve no pity.
You have become a savage through your anger;
you refuse good advice and hate him who offers it,
as though he were your enemy.

I will speak freely. May Zeus, god of vows, be my witness.
Listen to me; let my words be engraved in your mind:
you are diseased, and your pain has been sent by the gods
because you came close to the guardian of Chryse,
the viper who silently watches over
her roofless temple to keep invaders out.
Your pain will have no relief in this place,
where this sun rises, and this sun sets:
you must first go willingly with us to Troy
and there be taken by the Asklepiades,
who will relieve your disease. And then, beside me,
you must take your bow and conquer Troy.

I know that it must be this way.
A Trojan man was taken prisoner. His name
is Helenos, and he is a trustworthy prophet.
He told us of how this year it would pass,
how it was fated that Troy would fall to the Greeks.
If he was wrong, he said, then we should kill him.
You know it all now. Yield, and obey.
You will get much more than you asked for:
you will be healed by knowing hands, and then
you will gain the greatest glory of our people,
becoming the most famous of us all, conquering
Troy, the city that has drained us of blood and tears.

PHILOKTETES

Hateful life, why should I still live and see?
Why have I not descended into darkness?
What will I do? How can I mistrust
the one who gives me this kindly advice?
Must I give in? If I do, how shall I go
into the light? An outcast, mistreated,
to whom should I talk?
My eyes, can you bear to see me
living alongside those who tried to kill me,
the Atreids and that bastard Odysseus?
I worry not about the evils they have done,
but the evils they will do as these things unfold.
Once men have learned to hatch evil crimes,
they cannot help but be criminals again.

I wonder, and I keep on wondering.
You should not be going off to Troy,
and you should keep me from going there.
Those men have wronged you, robbed you
of your father's weapons. Will you still help them,
and make me do the same?
No. Take me home as you have promised,
and then stay in Skyros.
Let these men die badly, as they deserve.
Your father and I will be grateful to you,
for by helping the wicked
you become like them.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Your words have merit. Still, you must trust
the gods, and my word, and come as my friend.

PHILOKTETES

Come to the bitter plains of Troy,
to the accursed Atreids with my foot like this?

NEOPTOLEMOS

No, not to enemies, but to those who can help,
who can save you and your foot from this savage disease.

PHILOKTETES

What you urge is terrible.
Can I believe what you tell me?

NEOPTOLEMOS

It will be to our mutual benefit.

PHILOKTETES

Are you not ashamed to talk so, in full sight of the gods?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Why should I feel shame to do acts of good?

PHILOKTETES

Acts of good for me, or the Atreids?

NEOPTOLEMOS

I am your friend. My words are of friendship.

PHILOKTETES

How will you betray me to my enemies?

NEOPTOLEMOS

You must learn to extract yourself from this anguish.

PHILOKTETES

Your words are clear. You intend to destroy me.

NEOPTOLEMOS

No. You have not understood.

PHILOKTETES

Is it not true that the Atreids marooned me here?

NEOPTOLEMOS

Once they marooned you. Let us see if they'll save you.

PHILOKTETES

Not if salvation means going to Troy.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What will we do, then, since I cannot convince you?
It is better, it seems, that I stop talking,
and you go on living without hope of a cure.

PHILOKTETES

Let me suffer the things I must.
But what you promised, touching my hand,
you must do. Take me home without delay.
Forget Troy.
I am tired of lamenting here.

NEOPTOLEMOS

All right. Let us sail.

PHILOKTETES

You speak nobly.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Plant your feet firmly, and arise.

PHILOKTETES

I will do so, as firmly as I am able.

NEOPTOLEMOS

How will I avoid the scorn of the Greeks?

PHILOKTETES

Pay it no mind.

NEOPTOLEMOS

And what if they come in war against my country?

PHILOKTETES

I will be with you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What kind of help could you give me?

PHILOKTETES

The help of Herakles's bow.

NEOPTOLEMOS

What do you mean?

PHILOKTETES

I will drive them out of your fatherland.

NEOPTOLEMOS

If you will do this, then come
and kiss this ground, and we will go.

HERAKLES

Not yet. Not until you have heard me, Philoktetes.
Know that I am the voice of Herakles;
you hear it with your ears and you see my body.
I have come from the dead to give you my help.
I come to reveal Zeus's plans to you, and to stop
the journey which you now intend.
Listen to me.

Let me tell you first of my own fate,
tell you of the hardships and sufferings that were mine,
and of the undying fame that I later won.
I gained immortality, as you can see. So will you,
after all this misery you will have endless glory.
Go with this child to the plains of Troy.

There you will have a cure for your disease,
and win fame as the best of the Greek warriors.
You will kill Paris Alexander, who started it all;
you will kill him with your bow, once mine.
You will conquer Troy.
You will win the prize of glory from the armies
and spoils of war that you will take home
to Poias your father, and Oeta your country.
Take some of those spoils and make an offering
on a pyre in commemoration of my bow.

Son of Achilles, hear me too.
You alone are not strong enough to conquer Troy,
not without this man, nor he without you.
You must act like two lions in a pride,
guarding each other as you hunt.
I will send Asklepios to Troy to heal his disease.
Troy will fall twice before my bow.
Remember this, though: when you go to sack Troy,
stay holy. Zeus puts everything else below that.
Piety does not die with men;
whether they live or die, piety remains.

PHILOKTETES

Voice that moves me, long-gone body,
I will not disobey you.

NEOPTOLEMOS

Nor will I.

HERAKLES

Do not delay, then.
The time is right, and the tides are calling.

PHILOKTETES

Hear me, hated Lemnos.
Farewell, cave that shared my watch,
nymphs of the water-meadows, farewell,
thundering beat of waves on the headland,
that wetted my head with spray on the cliffs,
and the volcano that groaned in echo to my voice
when I was tossed by storms.
Springs and the well of Lykeios, I leave you.
I had lost all hope of doing so.
Farewell, Lemnos, bound by waves,
give me no further cause to mourn, but send me
off on fair seas to win my glory
where fate now carries me, to the judgment of friends
and the all-governing spirit that rules these events.

CHORUS

Let us all go now,
after we have prayed to the nymphs of the sea
to grant us safe passage over the waters.


This ebook, based on a book first published in 1725, was created in
         honour of Distributed Proofreaders’ 25th Anniversary.

                                  THE
                              PHILOCTETES
                                   OF
                              _SOPHOCLES_.

                      _Translated from the GREEK._

               _Graiis ingenium, Graiis dedit ore rotundo
               Musa loqui, præter laudem nullius avaris._

                                                                    HOR.

                               _DUBLIN_:
             Printed by J. HYDE and E. DOBSON, for R. OWEN
                Bookseller in _Skinner-Row_. M.DCC.XXV.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 TO THE

                            RIGHT HONOURABLE

                                  THE

                            Lady_ CARTERET_.

Madam,

With great Submission I present and dedicate the following Translation
to Your Ladyship, having no other way of shewing my Gratitude, for the
great Honour _My Lord Lieutenant_ did me by His Presence, when my
Scholars acted a Play of _Sophocles_ in _Greek_. I have made choice of
the same Author to entertain _Your Ladyship_, and he now makes his
Appearance before You in plain _English_, but much to his disadvantage,
which I hope will be excused, since I attempted it for the Reason which
I already mentioned.

The Translation I have made is as close as the Propriety of our Language
will admit, and _Your Ladyship_ will observe in it at least some Traces
of the Author’s Genius. But as the lowest Painter in drawing _Your
Ladyship_’s Picture, would be able to discover, that he at least
designed to represent something extraordinary, and the best must needs
fall infinitely short of the Original; So I cannot but hope that _Your
Ladyship_ will observe in this Translation some faint Lineaments of the
Author’s great Genius, superior to that of all modern Tragedians. And I
cannot but fear, that you will easily perceive how unable I am to do him
Justice, thro’ my own Defects, as well as those of our own Language. And
this would still be worse, if _Your Ladyship_ should be so cruel to
desire _My Lord Lieutenant_ to criticize upon these Papers, His
Excellency will detect, and expose me in every Line, and convince You,
in a few Minutes, that I am as far unable to express that Sublime in
_Sophocles_, as I should be able to describe the Virtues of Your
Ladyship, or His Excellency, which is the only Cause that I pass them
over in Silence in this Dedication.

I have added a few Notes, to explain some Passages that depend upon the
Fabulous Stories of the antient _Greeks_, which perhaps may have escaped
_Your Ladyship_’s Reading.

I humbly entreat _Your Ladyship_’s Pardon for this my Presumption, and
remain with all Respect

                              _Your Ladyship_’s

                                        _Most Obedient,

                                                  Humble Servant_,

                              THOMAS SHERIDAN.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             The ARGUMENT.

To give some Light into the following Tragedy, it will not be amiss to
give a short Account of the Persons concerned in it, that by knowing
their Characters beforehand, the Reader may better judge of the Author’s
Performance. The first who appears upon the Stage is ULYSSES, of whom I
shall give the following short History.

ULYSSES was King of _Ithaca_, _Cephalenia_, and _Dulichium_, (Islands in
the _Ionian_ Sea). _Homer_ makes him remarkable for his great
Experience, Eloquence, Counsel, and Skill in Military Affairs. And
likewise very famous for his Stratagems. It was he who detected
_Achilles_, disguised among the Daughters of _Lycomedes_; It was he who
contriv’d the bringing of _Philoctetes_ and his Arrows against _Troy_;
who stole off the Ashes of _Laomedon_; the _Palladium_, or Image of
_Minerva_; who killed _Rhesus_ King of _Thrace_, and brought away his
Horses, before they drank of the River _Xanthus_. For all these
Conditions were necessary to be fullfilled; or _Troy_ could never be
taken.

NEOPTOLEMUS in the Original signifies a young Warriour; his true Name
was _Pyrrhus_. He was the Son of _Achilles_. A young Man of strict
Virtue and Honour, and one of great Tenderness and Humanity; but at the
same Time he was ambitious. This was the only weak Part where ULYSSES
could attack him, which we find he took Advantage of, with great Art and
Subtlety. Yet, what gives us great Pleasure in the _Catastrophe_ of this
Tragedy, we find, upon the moving Exclamations and Complaints of
PHILOCTETES, that his good Nature, and the great Sense he had of
Justice, prevails over all other Considerations.

As for the CHORUS it is the only thing unaccountable in the antient
Tragedians. To examine nicely into the whole Conduct of it would require
a particular Treatise, and therefore I pass it by for many Reasons,
which would rather be impertinent to the Reader, than any way agreeable,
or improving; However it will not be amiss to set down here what
_Horace_ says of the _Chorus_, in his Art of Poetry.

                A _Chorus_ shou’d supply what Action wants,
              And hath a gen’rous and a manly Part;
              Bridles wild Rage, loves rigid Honesty,
              And strict Observance of impartial Laws,
              Sobriety, Security, and Peace,
              And begs the Gods to turn blind Fortune’s Wheel,
              To raise the Wretched, and pull down the Proud.
              But nothing must be sung between the Acts
              But what some way conduces to the Plot.

                                                              ROSCOMMON.

PHILOCTETES, Son of _Pæan_, went with seven Ships of his own a Voluntier
to _Troy_; and, as _Sophocles_ relates it, he was stung by a Viper in
one of his Feet, which occasioned such an offensive Smell, and so great
a Pain, that the Disturbance which he gave the _Greeks_ with his
Exclamations oblig’d the _Grecian_ Generals to expose him in the Wilds
of _Lemnos_. For which monstrous and ungrateful Treatment nothing less
than the Ghost of HERCULES appearing to him could make him join a second
time against the _Trojans_.

The _Merchant_ is a Person unknown, introduced by the Poet to make out
the Stratagem of ULYSSES.

HERCULES, the Son of _Jupiter_ and _Alcumena_; much persecuted by _Juno_
because he was the Off-spring of a stoln Amour. Hence arise the great
Number of Fables of his prodigious Exploits all over the World.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          _Dramatis Personæ._

                           PHILOCTETES.
                           ULYSSES.
                           NEOPTOLEMUS.
                           CHORUS.
                           MERCHANT.
                           Ghost of HERCULES.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  THE
                             _PHILOCTETES_
                                   OF
                               SOPHOCLES.

                                SCENE I.

                            _Enter_ ULYSSES.

   _Ul._ Now are we landed on the [1]_Lemnian_ Coast,
 Encompass’d by the Ocean’s rolling Waves,
 Where not a Print of human Foot is seen,
 Nor House, nor Hut; where, _Neoptolemus_,
 Thou blooming Branch of the renown’d _Achilles_,
 I left expos’d the [2]_Melian_ Son of _Pæan_.
 Our Princes thus commanded; I obey’d,
 Because a dreadful, nauseous, ranckling Wound
 Eat thro’ his Foot, and made him rend the Skies
 With Shrieks, and loud Laments, which much disturb’d
 The Army; no Religious Rites cou’d be
 Perform’d in Peace; of which I’ll say no more;
 For Time contracts my Tale, and Dread of him,
 Lest he shou’d find me here; and so confound
 My secret Wiles to apprehend his Person.
 The rest is thine. With careful Search explore
 A pervious Rock, so form’d as to receive
 The comfortable Beams of Winter-Suns,
 And the cool Breezes from the Sea in Summer,
 With fanning Wings inviting gentle Sleep.
 Fast by this Rock, upon the Left, you’ll find
 A Spring, if still it’s living Stream be fed;
 To this repair with silent Pace, and see
 Whether he lies conceal’d within these Bounds
 Advance with cautious Steps, and let me know,
 Then we’ll consult what next is to be done.

   _Neop._ Short is your Errand; for I now descry
 The Cave which you express----

   _Ul._ ---- above? below?
 Or where? in vain I cast my Eyes around.

   _Neop._ ’Tis there above; but not a single Trace
 Of any Path conducts us tow’rds the Rock.

   _Ul._ Go search, perhaps he is to Sleep reclin’d.

   _Neop._ There’s not a human Creature in this Place.

   _Ul._ Nor fit Provision for a human Creature?

   _Neop._ Some gather’d Leaves which by Impression shew
 They have been lain on.

   _Ul._ Is there nothing more?

   _Neop._ Yes. I observe a wooden Vessel, fram’d
 By some unskilful Hand, a little Pot
 To boil his Food is all that I can see.

   _Ul._ These then are all the Utensils he has?

   _Neop._ Alas! they’re all, except some Rags a-drying,
 Which by their Stains denote his fester’d Wound.

   _Ul._ Then I’m convinc’d he dwells in this Abode,
 And can’t be far from hence; his Wounds forbid
 A distant Walk. Perhaps he went for Food,
 Or Herbs to ease his Pains; but send this Man
 To watch his Motion, lest by a Surprize
 He takes me here; for justly I suspect
 He’d gladly seize Me above all the _Greeks_.

   _Neop._ I’ll send him straight to execute your Will----
 Speak, is there any more you’d have me do?

   _Ul._ Son of the great _Achilles_, it behoves thee
 To use thy Prudence here, as well as Valour;
 Whatever farther Counsel I shall give,
 Perform, and with a chearful Mind assist.

   _Neop._ What’s your Command?----

   _Ul_. ---- To _Philoctetes_ go,
 With soothing Speeches his Belief betray;
 When he enquires your Name, and whence you come,
 Tell him _Pelides_[3] is your Sire; so far
 Tell Truth; and that you now are homeward bound--
 Disgusted at the _Greeks_ you fly their Fleet.
 That by Entreaties, and incessant Prayers,
 They flatter’d you from home, to conquer _Troy_;
 But now your Father’s Armour they deny,
 Which by _Hereditary Right_ you claim.
 Tell him they’re giv’n to me; abuse and rail
 With all the Malice of an injur’d Foe;
 Speak what you please of Me, you can’t offend.
 If this Advice you spurn, you bring to all
 The _Greeks_ one great and universal Sorrow;
 For if you don’t contrive to get his Arrows,
 You never can be conquerour of _Troy_.
 Besides, you had a former Friendship with him,
 Which makes you now the fitter to betray.
 You went a Voluntier, not with the first,
 Who bound by Oaths and fatal Influence,
 Sail’d against _Ilium_; This was not my Case;
 So that my Life’s in Danger, your’s no less,
 If while he’s arm’d with them he sees me here.
 Your Bus’ness then is to deceive him straight,
 And steal th’ unconquerable Weapons from him.
 I know by Nature you are much averse
 To Artifice, but think how sweet it is
 To bear such Arrows as are sure of Conquest.
 Then bravely dare to do what I advise,
 The Time will come, the World will think you just
 For this Exploit; lay by your Shame one Hour,
 And give yourself to me, and ever hence
 You shall be deem’d the justest Man on Earth.

   _Neop._ [4]Son of _Laertes_, I am griev’d to hear
 Such Words from thee; to practise them is Death.
 I was not born to stoop to such vile Arts,
 Nor he from whom I glory to be sprung.
 If open Force or Fortitude require
 My Aid, I’ll venture; but I scorn Deceit.
 Sure one poor maimed Wretch can’t overthrow
 Such as we are, and since I’m sent with thee
 To join in this Adventure, I will use
 My utmost Force to help thee, nor betray
 The Trust repos’d--but let me speak my mind--
 I’d rather bravely die, than basely conquer.

   _Ul._ Son of the greatest Man, when I was young
 My Tongue was less employ’d, my Hands were more;
 But now, by long Experience, I’m convinc’d
 That Language more than Action can prevail.

   _Neop._ But you a lying Language recommend.

   _Ul._ I urge it still, this Man you must deceive.

   _Neop._ But why deceive, can’t I as well perswade.

   _Ul._ Force and Perswasion are to him the same.

   _Neop._ Has he so great a Confidence in Strength?

   _Ul._ Where’er his Arrows fly they carry Death.

   _Neop._ Who can with Safety then approach his Presence?

   _Ul._ You can’t, except you circumvent him first.

   _Neop._ Do you not think it base to forge a Lie?

   _Ul._ No; when your Safety on a Lie depends.

   _Neop._ Who when he lies can see another’s Face?

   _Ul._ When for your Gain you act, you shou’d not scruple.

   _Neop._ Where is my Gain to make him go to _Troy_?

   _Ul._ Because his Weapons must o’erthrow the Town.

   _Neop._ Then, as you said, the Conquest can’t be mine.

   _Ul._ In vain his Arrows fly without your Aid,
 And you attack without their Aid in vain.

   _Neop._ If so, I must deceive----

   _Ul._ ---- and well you do,
 For two Rewards you’re sure of----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ---- what are they?

   _Ul._ Wisdom and Fortitude will both be thine.

   _Neop._ Farewel then Modesty, for once farewel.

   _Ul._ Do you remember all my Counsels?

   _Neop._ Yes.
 I can’t forget where once I give Assent.

   _Ul._ Here wait his coming, I must hence withdraw
 Lest I be seen; back to the Ship I send
 Our Spy, and if I find a long Delay
 I’ll send him hither, dress’d in such Disguise
 That he shall pass for Captain of the Ship.
 His very Language too shall be disguis’d;
 Not so but you shall plainly understand
 What is convenient to be done; hence then
 In haste I go, and leave the rest to thee.
 May _Mercury_ assist, God of Deceit,
 And wise _Minerva_, on whose Care depend
 Whole States; for she is still _Ulysses’_ Friend.

                             ANTISTROPHICA

                                STROPHE.

 Chorus.      What shall I do a Stranger here?
                      Or what conceal?
                      Or what reveal?
                Behold I see the Man appear!
                Instruct me then; for well I know
                That Arts may Arts excell,
                            As well
                Counsels Counsels overthrow.
                    Among the Sceptred Great,
                Few can fathom the Designs of State.
              To thee, my Son, this princely Pow’r is given;
                A Pow’r deriv’d from Heav’n.
              How far subservient I must be, relate.

 Neop.        Perhaps you willingly wou’d trace,
                With long expecting Eyes,
              The wretched solitary Place
                Where _Philoctetes_ lies.
              Then look around and do not fear,
                And when he comes this way,
              A dreadful Sight approaching near,
                What I command obey.

                              ANTISTROPHE.

 Chorus.      I was determin’d long before
                To fix my Eyes on thine,
              Whatever Object they explore
                To view the same is mine.
              But tell me where this wretched Creature lives,
                Or in what Field he lies,
              Such Information much Advantage gives;
                For much I dread Surprize.
              What Place? what Path? what Seat?
              Is it an open or a close Retreat?

 Neop.        No Place to rest his weary Head,
              A pervious Rock you see is both his House and Bed.

 Chorus.      Where is the friendless Creature then?
              The most unfortunate of Men!

 Neop.        Not far from hence, to find him Food,
                The poor dejected Soul
              Is gone to shed the harmless Blood
                Of some unguarded Fowl:
              He lives on present Chance they say,
                His winged Arrows fly,
              To bring the Food of ev’ry Day
                Down flutt’ring from the Sky.
              But what avail him all the slain!
              For still he feels a sleepless Pain.

 Chorus.      Much I lament his dismal Case,
              Without the Sight of human Face;
                  Unhappy, and alone!
              Whole Nights and Days
              Rack’d with Disease!
                  To sigh, to grieve, to groan!
              How can he bear the dreadful Shock of Fate?
                  What num’rous Woes
                  Encompass those,
              Who live not in a middle State.

                            ANTISTROPHE II.

 Chorus.      Shou’d you the noblest ancient Lineage trace,
                You’ll find him of an equal Race;
              And yet behold him of all Joy bereft,
                Behold him solitary left!
              No Friend, no kind Companion to relieve his Pain.
                The spotted and the shagged Beasts around
                      Unheeding graze;
              Hunger and Torment he must both sustain;
                For both at once the wretched Mortal seize.
                  With piercing Shouts and Cries
                    He rends the Skies,
              And _Eccho_ faithfully returns the Sound.

 Neop.        Nothing of this my Breast can move,
                If I in things divine am skill’d,
              Whatever is decreed above,
                Must be on Earth fulfill’d.
              At _Chrysa_ first his Malady began,
              ’Twas there the angry Gods attack’d the wretched Man.
              Nor can we think they plac’d him here alone,
                        Without a Friend,
                        For any other End,
              But that they fix’d a Season of their own,
                        When ev’ry Wall,
                        Of _Troy_ shou’d fall,
              And _Troy_ no longer be a Town.

 Chorus.      Be silent for a while---- ---- ----

 Neop.        ---- ---- ---- For what I pray?

 Chorus.      His piteous Groans afflict my Ear,
              I hear them now approaching near.

 Neop.        What here? or there? or in what Place?
                  Methinks I hear a mournful Cry
              Of one, who moves a wretched Pace,
                  And dreads his maimed Foot to try.
              ’Tis he instructed by his Voice I know;
              I feel the murth’ring Language of his Woe.

 Chorus.      But have my Son---- ----

 Neop.        ---- ---- have what?

 Chorus.      Some other Thoughts; you see him near at Hand,
                  Not like a Shepherd with a tuneful Reed;
              But one who dreads upon his Foot to stand,
                  Because the lightest Pressure makes it bleed.
              If by ill chance he trips against a Stone,
                  With loud lamenting Voice he shrieks and roars;
              And when he spies a Ship; he cries, begone!
                  Fly far from these inhospitable Shores!

                          _Enter_ PHILOCTETES.

   _Phil._ Alas, ye Strangers! tell me whence ye come,
 Whence to these wild, these unfrequented Shores?
 There’s neither House, nor Port! whence? tell me whence
 Ye come? your Country and your Names: I see
 You’re _Greeks_ in Dress, a lovely Dress to me.
 Delight my Ears for once with welcome Sounds;
 My native Tongue; ah! don’t ye start, or dread
 To see me thus grown savage; rather shew
 Compassion to a poor unfortunate,
 Friendless, forsaken Wretch; speak if you’re Friends.
 O! answer me in haste, it is not meet
 A mutual Conversation shou’d be wanting.

   _Neop._ Know we are _Greeks_; for this you want to know.

   _Phil._ O dearest Voice, after ten long years Silence,
 To hear the Words of such a Man! what Joy!
 What Rapture does it give! my Son, tell who
 Has brought you hither? what Necessity?
 What Expectations? or what friendly Wind
 Has wafted you to us? O! tell us all,
 For much I long to know the happy Cause.

   _Neop._ My Country’s _Scyros_; homewards I am bound;
 My Sire’s _Achilles_; _Neoptolemus_
 My Name; thus I have told you all in short.

   _Phil._ Son of my dearest Friend, and dearest Country;
 Of [5]_Lycomedes_ the peculiar Care
 When young; what Fleet has brought thee here? or whence?

   _Neop._ From _Troy_ directly, thence I steer my Course.

   _Phil._ What’s this you say? when first we went to _Troy_
 You were not with us on that Expedition.

   _Neop._ Why, were you one of that advent’rous Fleet?

   _Phil._ Know you me not, my Son?

   _Neop._ ---- ---- How shou’d I know
 A Person whom I never saw before?

   _Phil._ Did you not hear my Name, or the Report
 Of all the Torments which have rack’d my Soul?

   _Neop._ No not one single Word of Name or Torments.

   _Phil._ Ah! wretched me!--odious to Heav’n’s great Powers!--
 My woful Case was neither heard at Home,
 Nor ev’n among the _Greeks_,--but those who cast
 Me out smile at my Wrongs, and keep them secret.
 My Wounds still ranckle, and encrease my Pain.
 Beloved Youth, Son of the fam’d _Pelides_,
 I the Successor of great _Hercules_
 Possess his Arrows: I’m the Son of _Pæan_,
 Call’d _Philoctetes_, whom two _Grecian_ Chiefs,
 Join’d with the subtle [6]_Cephalenian_ Prince
 Basely cast out into this desert Isle;
 Torn with wild Anguish, with Impressions dire
 Of Vipers Teeth all burning; thus they left me
 Forlorn, when hither they from [7]_Chrysa_ sail’d;
 Tir’d with the Agitation of the Waves,
 And sunk to Sleep profound; rejoic’d to find
 This cruel Opportunity, they fled
 And laid me in the hollow of a Rock;
 A few small Rags to bind my noisome Wounds,
 And present Food a little, all they left me.
 I wak’d! O Heavens! my Son, what Tongue can tell
 The Sorrows of my Soul? what Floods of Tears
 Flow’d down my Cheeks! what Sighs! what Groans!
 To see them sailing off, and not one Soul
 With solitary mourning _Philoctetes_.
 No Help, no friendly Care, no kind Relief
 To my distracting Sores; I look’d around,
 And found not one Companion but my Pain;
 Which ne’er remits. Day after Day went on,
 I saw my little Cave must be supply’d
 By my own Care, and Hunger be subdu’d
 By the wild Doves my faithful Arrows slew.
 What Birds I shot I crawl’d along with Pain
 To bring them home, and dragg’d my bleeding Foot
 With Anguish great. When to the limpid Spring
 I crept to cool my parching Thirst, or went
 To gather Fewel for my Fire, (the same
 Affliction seiz’d me as I limp’d along)
 This by repeated Stroaks of Flints I kindled,
 But long before the little Seeds of Fire,
 Scarce visible, became a living Flame.
 This is my chief Support, my Cave’s best Comfort;
 It grants me all but a Release from Pain.
   But now, my Son, ’tis Time I should relate
 The Nature of this Place. No Sailor steers
 With willing Sails to these inhuman Shores;
 No Trade; no Harbours; here no Mortal dwells
 With hospitable Care to tend a Stranger;
 None in their Senses will approach this Place.
 If hither by tempestuous waves they’re driven
 (As oft it happens in the length of Time)
 To soft Compassion mov’d, my sad Condition
 They pity, and some Food and Raiment give;
 But not a Soul will take me home, but here
 I’m left to perish in the desert Wilds.
 For ten long Years of Hunger and of Pain,
 I fed the Wounds, that feed themselves on me.
 This the [8]_Atridæ_ did, and this _Ulysses_;
 For which may Heav’n inflict like Woes on them.

 Chorus.      Like those by chance who hither sail,
                  I feel Compassion rise;
              Thy Suff’rings force me to bewail,
                  They pierce my wounded Heart and melt my Eyes.

   _Neop._ I am a Witness of thy sad Complaint;
 The Truth of what you say I cannot doubt;
 I by Experience know, how violent
 The Sons of _Atreus_ and _Ulysses_ are.

   _Phil._ Have you then felt their curst, destructive Power,
 That with a just Resentment you accuse them?

   _Neop._ I wish my Passion were with Arms supply’d,
 That [9]_Sparta_ and _Mycenæ_ both might know,
 What valiant Heroes _Scyros_ can produce.

   _Phil._ Well said, my Son, what is your Cause of Anger?

   _Neop._ Thou Son of _Pæan_, I’ll impart it all,
 Tho’ Words are wanting justly to describe
 The injur’d _Neoptolemus_, when he
 Had lost his best Defence, his martial Father.

   _Phil._ Alas! proceed no farther ’till I hear
 Whether the [10]Son of _Peleus_ be no more.

   _Neop._ He fell, but by no mortal hand; they say
 It was _Apollo_ sent the fatal Shaft.

   _Phil._ Great was the Hand that slew! and great the slain!
 But now, my Son, I am divided much
 Between thy Suff’rings and his Death to know
 Whether to hear thy Griefs, or wail his Fate.

   _Neop._ Thy own Misfortunes bring sufficient Pains,
 And leave no room to think of any others.

   _Phil._ You reason well. Then to yourself proceed,
 And let me know the Injuries you bear.

   _Neop._ _Ulysses_ and my Tutour _Phœnix_ came
 Both in one Ship to me, and this their Message;
   That now my Father was no more, my Help
 Was requisite to conquer _Troy_; none else
 Alive could do. For so the Fates decreed.
 How true or false I shan’t presume to say.
 With quick Perswasion off I went, but more
 Desirous far to see my Father’s Body;
 But saw it not. Yet still Ambition fir’d
 My gen’rous Soul with glorious Thoughts of Conquest.
 In two days Time on the [11]_Sigeian_ Shore
 I landed; wretched was that Shore to me!
 While the whole Army stood around to pay
 Their due Respect, and all did loudly swear
 They saw _Achilles_ still alive in me;
 But he, alas! was dead; unhappy I
 Let fall some silent Tears, and so retir’d
 A while to think of him, and grieve alone.
 To the _Atridæ_, whom I thought my Friends,
 I went, demanding my dead Father’s Treasures,
 Among the rest his Armour; when, alas!
 How great my Sorrow! this the dismal Answer.
   “Son of _Achilles_, all the rest is thine;
 “The Armour is dispos’d of to _Ulysses_.
 At this Intelligence I griev’d; and wept.
 At length my Passion struggling broke its way,
 And thus I spoke; Injurious Prince, who durst
 Without my Leave dispose of what was mine?
   Then said _Ulysses_, standing near, they’re mine;
 “And justly were they given: I sav’d your Sire
 “From being stript of them and dragg’d him off,
 “When hostile Foes wou’d make his Coarse a Prey.
   Now much enrag’d, my swelling Anger burst,
 And out in dreadful Imprecations flew
 Upon them all, for such injurious Treatment.
 _Ulysses_ then advanc’d, suppress’d his Anger;
 But stung at what he heard, he thus reply’d.
 _You ran no Risk, but staid behind at Home;
 Rant as you please, you ne’er shall bear it hence._
   Thus injur’d and repuls’d, I homeward sail’d,
 Spoil’d of my native Right, by one I deem
 The worst of Men, I mean the base _Ulysses_.
 But yet I blame the chief Commanders more;
 The Army and the Civil Pow’r is theirs;
 Their Orders all obey; when Wrongs are done,
 It is by their Connivance, or Example.
 I’ve told you all; whoever hates th’ _Atridæ_,
 I hold him dear both to the Gods and me.

 Chorus.            All feeding Mother Earth,
                  On whom the lofty [12]Mountains stand,
                    From thee great _Jove_ derives his [13]Birth,
                  Supported by thy bounteous Hand.
              Thou who dost dwell where rich [14]_Pactolus_ shines
              With Wealth exhausted from the Golden Mines,
                      Shall I invoke thy Name
                      Within that Stream?
              And tell what Injuries are done
                      To _Neoptolemus_, the Son
              Of great _Pelides_, that great Man of Fame?
                      His Armour to _Ulysses_ given,
              And he the Son from his own native Right is driven.
                      Thee, mighty Goddess, we invoke,
                      Who dost Bull-slaught’ring [15]Lyons Yoke,
              And drawn by them in Car-triumphant ride,
              Humble th’ _Atridæ_ and pull down their Pride.

-----

Footnote 1:

  _Lemnian_ Coast. _Lemnos_ is an Island in the _Ægean_ Sea, South of
  _Thrace_, in the Latitude of 41 Deg. now called _Stalimene_ by the
  _Turks_: The Form of it is Quadrangular, it is 25 Miles over, which
  makes it 100 Miles about.

Footnote 2:

  _Melian_ Son of _Pæan_. _Philoctetes_ the _Thessalian_ Son of _Pæan_,
  and Companion of _Hercules_.

Footnote 3:

  _Pelides._ _Achilles_ the Son of _Peleus_.]

Footnote 4:

  Son of _Laertes_. _Ulysses._

Footnote 5:

  _Lycomedes_ King of _Scyros_, (one of the _Cyclades_) to whom the
  Goddess _Thetis_ gave her Son _Achilles_ in Charge, having stoln him
  from his Master _Chiron_, as he was asleep; because she foresaw that
  he would never return alive from the Siege of _Troy_. For this Reason
  he was kept at the Court of _Lycomedes_, in a Woman’s Dress, among his
  Daughters, the better to conceal him. He was at last discover’d by a
  Stratagem of _Ulysses_.

Footnote 6:

  _Cephalenian_ Prince. _Ulysses._ So call’d from the Island
  _Cephalenia_, of which he was King.

Footnote 7:

  _Chrysa_, an Island near _Lemnos_.

Footnote 8:

  _Atridæ._ _Agamemnon_ and _Menelaus_, the two Sons of _Atreus_. One
  was King of _Mycenæ_, and the other of _Sparta_. They were the chief
  Commanders of the _Greeks_ who went upon the _Trojan_ Expedition.

Footnote 9:

  _Sparta_ and _Mycenæ_. Both Towns of the _Peleponnesus_ in _Greece_.

Footnote 10:

  Son of _Peleus_. _Achilles._ _Peleus_ was King of _Thessaly_.

Footnote 11:

  _Sigeum_, a Promontory near _Troy_.

Footnote 12:

  _Orea_, or Mountains according to Mythologists were said to be
  Daughters of the Goddess _Terra_, or Earth.

Footnote 13:

  _Jupiter_ was born in _Crete_.

Footnote 14:

  _Pactolus_, a River in _Lydia_, which has its Rise from the Mountain
  _Tmolus_ famous for Golden Sands.

Footnote 15:

  _Cybele_, who was the same with _Terra_, or the Earth, had her Chariot
  drawn by Lyons.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               SCENE II.

   _Phil._ Strangers, ye seem to bear the Marks of Sorrow,
 And I perceive your Sentiments and mine
 Concerning the _Atridæ_, and _Ulysses_,
 Are both the same: As for his Part, I know
 His artful, false, disguis’d, deluding Tongue,
 To Truth and Justice is a perfect Stranger:
 At which I wonder not, but much admire
 How braver [16]_Ajax_ cou’d allow such Wrongs.

   _Neop._ _Ajax_, my Friend, is dead, or had he Life,
 I shou’d not thus be made a shameful Prey.

   _Phil._ And is the great, the valiant _Ajax_ dead?

   _Neop._ He now no longer breathes in Heav’ns fair Light.

   _Phil._ Wretched am I--There’s [17]_Diomede_ alive
 And curs’d _Ulysses_, sprung from [18]_Sisyphus_,
 And both unworthy of the Breath they draw.

   _Neop._ Both live and flourish, both in Pomp appear,
 Peculiar Fav’rites of the _Grecian_ Host.

   _Phil._ Where is my good, my old, my faithful Friend,
 [19]_Nestor_ of _Pylos_? for he well foresaw
 Their dark Designs, their base, their treach’rous Deeds.

   _Neop._ Loaded with Woes, his only Son is dead,
 _Antilochus_; the Comfort of his Age.

   _Phil._ Two dismal Evils you have told, I hear
 Them both with much Affliction; O my Heart!
 What shall I think? The brave are dead and gone;
 _Ulysses_ lives! who well deserv’d to die.

   _Neop._ He wisely fights; but even the wise sometimes
 Perceive their deepest Counsels overthrown.

   _Phil._ Tell me, I pray thee by the Gods, where was
 Thy Father’s dearest Friend [20]_Patroclus_ then.

   _Neop._ Slain with the rest. Observe this one Remark,
 _Mars_ ever singles out the brave to die;
 Cowards are safe; he scorns their panting Breast.

   _Phil._ I grant it’s true; and for this Cause I shall
 Enquiry make for one unworthy Wretch,
 Whose Tongue had Words and Cunning at command,
 In what Condition’s he?---- ----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ----_Ulysses_ sure
 You mean; this Character suits none but him.

   _Phil._ No. One [21]_Thersites_ clamorous and loud,
 In spight of Opposition; does he live?

   _Neop._ I saw him not, but heard he was alive.

   _Phil._ ’Tis like, because no Evil yet is dead.
 The Gods to me seem Guardians to the base,
 And take a Pleasure to preserve from Death
 The false and fraudulent; the just and good
 They snatch away from hence. What shall we think
 Of this? or how give Praise to them? who shew
 So much Regard to wicked Men their Fav’rites.

   _Neop._ As for myself, I’ll freely speak my Thoughts,
 Thou Son of _Pæan_, I resolve to live
 Remote from _Troy_, and the _Atridæ_ both;
 Where wicked Men with Pow’r oppress the Good,
 Where Virtue is destroy’d, and Vice commands.
 As for my self, I cannot love such Men;
 And rocky _Scyros_ shall hereafter be
 My best Content----There shall I joy to live.
 Now to my Ship I go, dear Son of _Pæan_,
 Farewel; with all my Soul farewel; and may
 The Gods remove thy Pain ev’n as thou wilt;
 For go we must, whenever Heav’n is pleas’d
 To send a fair and favourable Wind.

   _Phil._ And do ye now prepare?---- ----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ----No Time we lose;
 The moment that the Winds invite, we go.

   _Phil._ O! for thy Father’s, and thy Mother’s sake,
 For all that can be dear to thee at home,
 I beg, beseech, and pray you not to leave
 A poor, forsaken, solitary Man,
 In all the dire Calamities you see;
 And such as I already have related;
 But place me any where, in any manner.
 I know a wretched Burthen that I am,
 However bear me to the generous Soul;
 What’s base is hateful; Goodness is his Glory.
 If I be left behind, it brings Disgrace;
 But if you take me off, it brings you Honour.
 If I shall get alive to _Oeta_’s Land,
 ’Tis but the trouble of one single Day;
 Then dare to take me, throw me where you please;
 Or by the Pump, or Stern, or Prow, my Friend,
 Or any part, where I shall give no Pain.
 By _Jove_, who over suppliant Men presides,
 I beg you to consent, my Son; I fall
 Down prostrate, and in Tears embrace your Knees;
 A poor, lame, helpless, miserable Man.
 Ah! leave me not alone, where not a Print
 Of human Foot is seen; but save me hence;
 Whether you take me to your native home,
 Or land me on [22]_Eubea_’s Coast; from thence
 To [23]_Oeta_ I’ve not far to go; not far
 To the _Trachinian_ Hills, where [24]_Spercheus_ winds
 It’s lovely Stream; there let my Father see me.
 Tho’ long since much I fear he’s dead; for oft
 By many Passengers I sent, to beg
 He’d send a Ship to take me safely home;
 But he is either dead, or they perhaps
 Slighted my Message; or they pass’d him by.
   Now is my last Resort, be thou at once
 Conductor both and Messenger; O save,
 And have Compassion, and consider well
 How frail are human Things; how much expos’d
 To Change! This day the happy Man may be
 Cast down from all his Joy; then he who stands
 Without the Storm, shou’d cast a tender Eye
 On the poor shipwreck’d Man, and bring Relief;
 ’Tis in the midst of Happiness we shou’d
 Live on our Guard, for fear of a Surprize.

 Chorus.        O Prince, for once be kind,
                Let him Compassion find.
              He told you all his dreadful Woes,
                Which Heaven avert from any Friend of mine.
                Then let the Joy be thine,
                To make th’ _Atridæ_ know
                  He shall obtain
                  Release from Pain,
                And ev’ry haughty Foe.
              Then haste away and hoist your Sails,
              Make haste to catch the flying Gales,
                  And waft him o’er
                  Unto his native Shore,
              Lest Heav’n pursues you if my Counsel fails.

-----

Footnote 16:

  _Ajax_, the Son of _Telamon_ and _Hesione_, accounted the next Hero to
  _Achilles_ among the _Greeks_.

Footnote 17:

  _Diomede_, Son of _Tydeus_, next in Prowess to _Ajax_. _Homer_ makes
  him wound _Mars_ and _Venus_.

Footnote 18:

  _Sisyphus_, a great Robber in _Attica_, the Grandfather of _Ulysses_.

Footnote 19:

  _Nestor._ An experienc’d General and Orator, Son of _Neleus_; So
  excellent in Wisdom, that _Agamemnon_ said, if he had ten such in his
  Army, _Troy_ would soon be conquer’d.

Footnote 20:

  _Patroclus_, Son of _Menætius_. When he was young having kill’d one of
  his Playfellows by accident, was forc’d to fly his Country, and go to
  _Pthia_ in _Thessaly_, where he was receiv’d by _Tydeus_, and bred up
  with his Son _Achilles_ under _Chiron_: This made him and _Achilles_
  such inseparable Companions and Friends.

Footnote 21:

  _Thersites._ The most deformed of all the _Greeks_. He is painted by
  _Homer_ in a most ridiculous Manner.

Footnote 22:

  _Eubea_, an Island in the _Ægean_ Sea, now called _Negrepont_.

Footnote 23:

  _Oeta_, a Mountain on the Borders of _Thessaly_. _Trachin_ a Town near
  it, whence the Hills are called _Trachinian_.

Footnote 24:

  _Spercheus._ A River which runs with a rapid Course from a Mountain in
  _Thessaly_.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               SCENE III.

   _Neop._ Take care you do not now disguise your Thoughts,
 And soon again with Violence exclaim,
 When he no longer can suppress his Anguish.

   _Chorus._ Falshood be far from me, such foul Disgrace
 You shall not justly have to charge me with.

   _Neop._ It wou’d be scandalous and base in me,
 To be less willing to assist this Stranger;
 Then sail we must away, let him prepare
 With Expedition; for I shan’t deny
 To take him in my Ship, and may the Gods
 Propitious prove, and safely fill our Sails.

   _Phil._ O friendly Day to me! O best of Men!
 Ye dearest Mariners, how shall I make
 Acknowledgments? or how can I express
 What Obligations bind me to you all?
 But let us go, my Son, to visit now
 My little homeless Home, and there you’ll see
 What Life I led; how strong my Heart to bear
 Such Hardships; that the Place wherein I lay
 Wou’d give your Eyes offence; yet I, alas!
 Was by Necessity inur’d to this.

   _Chorus._ Hold, let us see; two Men advance this Way,
 The one belongs to thee, t’other I know
 Him not, but hither they approach. Before
 We go, ’tis fit we shou’d enquire their Business.

                         _Enter the_ Merchant.

   _Mer._ Son of _Achilles_, here by Chance I came;
 And unexpected find thee, by this Man
 Inform’d; for he, it seems, with two Men more,
 Guarded thy Vessel. Sailing right from _Troy_
 And homewards bound to [25]_Peparethos_ fam’d
 For Vines, I heard these Men, prepar’d to sail,
 Were thine; I straightway then resolv’d to hail
 The Crew, and not to pass before I shou’d
 Acquaint you, what you little think; The _Greeks_
 Have form’d Designs against you, which not long
 Will so be call’d, for soon you’ll find them Facts.

   _Neop._ My Friend, I thank thee for thy Care; I shou’d
 Be base indeed, were you not dear to me
 For this Intelligence. What new Designs
 Concerning me? What have the _Greeks_ resolv’d?

   _Mer._ Old _Phœnix_ and the Sons of _Theseus_ in
 Pursuit of thee set sail----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ----Do they intend
 By Force of Arms, or Reason, to subdue
 And bring me back?----

   _Mer._ ---- ----I know not which they mean;
 But this Intelligence I thought was proper.

   _Neop._ Will _Phœnix_ and his Men, to gratify
 The base _Atridæ_, turn their Force on me?

   _Mer._ They have resolv’d so far, they won’t delay.

   _Neop._ Why not _Ulysses_, Was it Fear detain’d him?

   _Mer._ He and the Son of _Diomede_ are bent
 Upon another Prey, they hoist their Sails
 The very day I launch’d my Ship from thence.

   _Neop._ Against what Man is this _Ulysses_ sent?

   _Mer._ A certain Man--But whisper me who’s this?

   _Neop._ This is the famous _Philoctetes_, Friend.

   _Mer._ Say not a Word--But hence--begone in Haste;--
 Fly from this Island with your utmost Speed.

   _Phil._ What does he say, my Son? what private Gain
 Does he propose by whisp’ring thus of me?

   _Neop._ I know not what he means. He must himself
 Explain it, in the Presence of us all.

   _Mer._ Son of _Achilles_, do not you betray me,
 For thus disclosing what I shou’d conceal;
 Because I’m much indebted to the _Greeks_,
 Bound by the strongest Ties of Gratitude;
 For I was poor, and they reliev’d my Want’s.

   _Phil._ To the _Atridæ_ I’m an Enemy----
 But here’s my greatest Friend, because his Hate
 For them with mine agrees; and now you’re come,
 Sincerely act, and do not ought conceal
 That may be grateful for my Soul to know.

   _Mer._ See what you do, my Friend----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ----I’ve thought on’t well.

   _Mer._ The Blame shall all be thine---- ----

   _Neop._ ---- ----On what Account?

   _Mer._ Once more, my Friend, I must acquaint you, That
 The Son of _Tydeus_ and _Ulysses_ come
 Against this Person, sworn by Force to take him,
 Or by Perswasion sooth him back again;
 This from _Ulysses_ all the _Grecians_ heard;
 For none beside had so much Confidence.

   _Neop._ What mov’d th’ _Atridæ_, after so long Time,
 To have a Thought of banish’d _Philoctetes_?
 Whence this Desire for him? was it because
 They fear’d the Vengeance of th’ offended Gods?

   _Mer._ I’ll tell thee all; (perhaps you heard it not)

 A Royal Prophet, Son of aged _Priam_,
 Call’d _Helenus_, in dead of Night betray’d
 By false _Ulysses_, (that detested Man!)
 Was led in Chains, and brought a glorious Prey
 By him presented to the _Greeks_; he told
 All his Prophetick Soul cou’d then foresee
 Concerning _Troy_; That it wou’d ne’er be conquer’d,
 Except they brought this Person, whom you see
 Upon this Island; which _Laertes’_ Son
 No sooner hear’d, but he straight undertook
 The Task, and said he’d bring him to the _Greeks_
 With free Consent, or else against his Will;
 If not, he wou’d engage to lose his Head.
 Now you have heard it all, I urge your Haste,
 And his, and any else whom you regard.

   _Phil._ Alas for me! did he, who’s stain’d all thro’
 With Crimes, engage to bring me back again?
 He might as well perswade me back from Death
 To Life, as basely as his Father came.

   _Mer._ These Things I know not, but I must from hence
 On Board; may some good God conduct you both.

   _Phil._ Is not this harden’d Impudence, that he
 Shou’d hope by flatt’ring Speeches to prevail,
 And take me to the _Greeks_? I’d sooner hear
 The Viper which depriv’d me of my Foot.
 But he will say and dare do ev’ry Thing;
 And now I know for certain he will come.
 But let us go, my Son, that we may be
 Divided by a distant Sea from him.
 Let us be gone--a seasonable Haste,
 When Labour’s over, brings a pleasing Rest.

   _Neop._ How can we go when Heav’n’s against our Sails,
 Adverse the Wind, commanding us to stay?

   _Phil._ No Wind’s against us when we fly from Evils.

   _Neop._ It blows against their Sails as much as ours.

   _Phil._ By adverse Winds a Pyrate ne’er is hindred,
 When forth he sallies for his lawless Plunder.

   _Neop._ Since you request it, let us go, and take
 Whatever Things are needful for your Voyage.

   _Phil._ Some I shall want, but they are very few.

   _Neop._ What can you need which I cannot supply?

   _Phil._ Some Herbs, whose Virtues mitigate my Pain,
 And often put my restless Wounds to sleep.

   _Neop._ Well--bring them out----what other Things beside?

   _Phil._ My Bow--Alas I had almost forgot!
 And left it here behind a Prey to him.

   _Neop._ Is this the celebrated Bow you bear?

   _Phil._ The very same; my Hand no other holds.

   _Neop._ Give me a nearer View, and let me take
 It in my Hands, and pay it Adoration.

   _Phil._ This, and whatever else I have, my Son,
 Whatever pleases you, you may command.

   _Neop._ I love thee well, and thus I shew my Love;
 If Heav’n permits to touch thy Bow, I will;
 If not, refuse me; if a wrong Request.

   _Phil._ You speak religiously, my Son, you may--
 You who have brought me to the Sun’s fair Light,
 To see the sweet _Oetean_ Fields again,
 My aged Father, and my dearest Friends;
 Who rais’d me up, o’erwhelm’d by envious Foes;
 You shall, and welcome, take it in your Hands;
 But then return it safely to it’s Owner.
 Then may you boast that you’re the only Man,
 Whom for your Virtue, and for that alone,
 So much I’ve honour’d, as to touch this Bow;
 ’Twas giv’n to me for human Acts; for which
 I’m pleas’d to see so good a Friend enjoy it.
 _Whoever knows for Benefits receiv’d
 To make a just Return, that Man I deem
 A Friend beyond the Value of all Treasure._

   _Neop._ ---- ----’Tis Time to enter in thy Cave.

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ---- ----And thee
 I must entreat to go; for I shall want thy Help.

                             ANTISTROPHICA

                               STROPHE I.

 Chorus.      I heard of those eternal Pains,
                  Which rack’d [26]_Ixion_ feels,
              Fast bound by Adamantine Chains
                  To ever-turning Wheels.

              Doom’d to this Fate by angry _Jove_,
                  For tempting to embrace
              The Queen of Heav’n with impious Love;
                  His Torments never cease.

              But never did I hear or see
                  A Man so rack’d before,
              As _Philoctetes_ seems to me,
                  What Suff’rings can be more?

              He never did an Act was wrong,
                  But Justice still maintain’d;
              I wonder much that he so long,
                  Such Torments has sustain’d.

              Tell me the Cause, ye angry Pow’rs,
                  In Fortune’s stormy Seas,
              He’s tost so many tedious Hours,
                  Without one Moment’s Ease.

                             ANTISTROPHE I.

              Expos’d to all the Storms that blow,
                From whence he cannot fly;
              And not a Friend to feel his Woe
                Returning Sigh for Sigh.

              Not one the healing Herb applies
                To sooth his angry Wound;
              But torn with Anguish, there he lies
                Extended on the Ground.

              The Instant that his Pains abate,
                He like an Infant creeps,
              To find a Plant to quell that Heat,
                And thus the Venom sleeps.

                              STROPHE II.

              Not from the sacred Earth his Foods
                Nor from the Tiller’s Care,
              Does he recruit his streaming Blood,
                But from the Bird-flown Air.

              When soaring Fowls advance this Way
                He lets his Arrows fly;
              To certain Death the feather’d Prey
                Falls flutt’ring from the Sky.

              Ah! wretched Soul, thy Fate was hard,
                To live ten Years in Pain,
              To be from joyful Wine debarr’d
                To drink the tastless Rain.

                            ANTISTROPHE II.

              His Fortune’s now revers’d we see,
                A gen’rous Youth’s inclin’d
              To waft him Home; to set him free;
                And ease his tortur’d Mind.

              Lo! to the _Melian_ Nymphs he’s gone,
                To _Sperchius’_ vagrant Streams,
              To _Oeta_’s Mount where _Jove_’s great Son
                To Heav’n aspir’d in Flames.

   _Neop._ Come, gently move along; what means this Silence?
 Why stand you thus confounded in amaze?

   _Phil._ Alas! alas! alas!---- ---- ----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ----What mean these Sounds?

   _Phil._ Nothing that’s worth Complaint; my Friend proceed.

   _Neop._ Perhaps our walking may increase your Pains.

   _Phil._ Not in the least, I rather feel my Wound
 Much lighter since our Walk. Ye heav’nly Powers! (_aside_)

   _Neop._ Why do you then invoke the heav’nly Powers?

   _Phil._ To be propitious, and attend our Voyage.
 O Heav’ns, what Pains I feel!---- ----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ----What Suff’rings now?
 Why are you silent? For you seem to me
 By Starts and Groans your Torture to confess.

   _Phil._ My Son, I’m lost; no longer I conceal
 The Malady; it wounds my very Soul;
 It pierces thro’ and thro’; O wretched me!
 Murther’d! undone! and lost beyond Redress.
 O dismal, racking, burning, poison’d Pains!
 Reach me a Sword, my Son, an Ax, a Dagger;
 Cut off my Foot this instant; spare it not.

   _Neop._ What new Addition do you feel, that makes
 You roar with hideous Exclamation loud.

   _Phil._ You know, my Son---- ----

   _Neop._ ----Not I----

   _Phil._ You know indeed.

   _Neop._ What do you mean?

   _Phil._ ----I know not what I mean.

   _Neop._ Why know you not?

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ----I cannot speak for Pain.

   _Neop._ Dreadful the shooting of thy Wound indeed!

   _Phil._ Dreadful beyond Expression; O! my Friend,
 Have some Compassion on the Woes I feel.

   _Neop._ What shall I do to give thee Ease?----

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ---- ----Ah! don’t
 Forsake me for the piteous Moans I make.
 By Fits and Starts, my Torments come and go
 Like Vagabonds, to feed; and then they vanish.

   _Neop._ Unhappy Mortal, I lament thy Fate,
 And all the lamentable Shocks thou bearest--
 Shall I support you as you walk along?

   _Phil._ Support me not, but hold my Bow a-while,
 Until the present Torment which I feel
 Abates, and keep it safe; for when my Pains
 Are at the full, I sink to sleep; no means
 Beside can give me Ease; then sleep I must,
 And let me lie from all Disturbance free;
 If in that Interval my Foes shou’d come,
 By all the Gods I must conjure thee, not
 To part it from thy Hands, by Will, or Force,
 Or any Stratagem may be contriv’d
 To get it from thee; for on this depends
 Thy Safety, and thy humble Suppliant’s Life.

   _Neop._ Fear not, thy Caution I’ll observe--No Man
 Alive shall touch this Bow, except thy self,
 And me--Give it--May Fortune guard us both.

   _Phil._ Take it--Good luck attend thee--But adore
 The Goddess _Envy_ first, lest the same Fate
 Pursues thee which annoy’d its former Masters.

   _Neop._ Ye Gods! grant my Request; may happy Winds,
 When ye think fit, convey us home with Safety.

   _Phil._ I fear your Pray’rs are all in vain, my Son;
 The boiling Blood ’stills from my burning Sole.
 Some Change much worse I dread, alas! alas!
 O wretched Foot, what Evils do you feed!
 Now, now it tears, now to my Soul it comes,
 Attacks with greatest Force. O wretched me!
 Bear with my loud Complaints, and fly not hence,
 My Friends, O fly not from my dismal Groans.
   My _Cephalenian_ Friend, I wish thy Breast
 Felt all my Grief at once. O _Agamemnon_,
 And you his Brother-Leader _Menelaus_,
 How would you bear these Wounds I feel, so long?
 Ah me what num’rous Evils I endure!
 O Death! Death! Death! whom ev’ry Day I call;
 Will you not come and end my loathsome Life?
 Thou generous Youth in whom true Pity dwells,
 Take me and throw me in the _Lemnian_ Flames;
 There burn me all, do me that friendly Office,
 Which I did for the Son of _Jove_, when he
 Bequeath’d these Arrows, which to thee I’ve given.
 What do you say? ah! speak, and be not silent;
 Where’s thy Attention? where’s thy wand’ring Mind.

   _Neop._ I grieve long since and all thy Pains deplore.

   _Phil._ But, O my Son, bear; bear my Griefs a-while;
 They’re short, and violent, and quickly gone;
 Therefore I beg you leave me not alone.

   _Neop._ I shall not leave thee.

   _Phil._ No?

   _Neop._ For certain not.

   _Phil._ I shall not by an Oath engage thy Faith.

   _Neop._ It is not fit I leave thee behind.

   _Phil._ Pledge me your Hand you’ll stay.

   _Neop._ I do.

   _Phil._ O place me there, there place me.

   _Neop._ In what Place?

   _Phil._ Above.

   _Neop._ What makes you wildly look around.

   _Phil._ O let me go from hence.

   _Neop._ Where let thee go?

   _Phil._ Let me, I say.

   _Neop._ I will not let thee go.

   _Phil._ One Touch is Murder.

   _Neop._ Then I let thee go.
 Hast thou recover’d yet thy perfect Senses?

   _Phil._ O Earth receive me sinking to thy Bosom.
 I can’t sustain myself one Moment longer.

   _Neop._ Poor Man! a sudden Slumber seals his Eyes!
 His drooping Head upon his Breast is fallen!
 The dewy Sweat distils from all his Pores;
 And bursting Gore streams from his tortur’d Foot.
 O let us leave him now to Rest and Quiet;
 Let him forget himself in Sleep a while.

-----

Footnote 25:

  _Peparethos._ One of the Cluster of Islands in the _Ægean_ Sea called
  the _Cyclades_.

Footnote 26:

  _Ixion._ After he had murther’d his Father-in-law _Deioneus_ being
  much rack’d on that Account, _Jupiter_ in Compassion translated him to
  Heaven, where he basely attempted _Juno_; for which, _Jupiter_ had him
  fix’d to a Wheel in Hell, which was to turn round for ever.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               SCENE IV.

                                EPODICA.

                               STROPHE I.

 Chorus.      Soft Sleep, thou Stranger to all Pain,
                Breathe on him with thy softest Gale;
              Thou Prince of a most happy Reign,
                Upon his Eye-Lids gently steal.
              Keep off the bright extended Rays of Light,
              And gather all the gloomy Shades of Night.
                Come hither thou Physician sure,
                Thou the universal Cure.

                              ANTISTROPHE.

              Resolve, my Son, what you must do,
                Why are you wav’ring in Suspense?
              Our first Designs we shou’d pursue,
                At once surprize and bear him hence.
              The wisest Counsels still we see
              Depend on Opportunity.
              And now this favourable Hour
              Entirely puts him in our Pow’r.

   _Neop._ Tho’ fast asleep he hears us not, in vain
 We take his Bow, and leave him here behind;
 The Crown is due to him, the Gods desire
 That we shou’d take him with us, but to boast
 A vain Attempt will bring us foul Disgrace.

                              ANTISTROPHE.

 Chorus.      These Things are to the Gods alone,
              To their all-searching Wisdom known;
              But in your Answer tell in short,
              And fix upon our last Resort;
              For Pains th’ afflicted wakeful keep,
              They only have a sleepless Sleep.
              Whatever Counsel’s best to thee,
              That Counsel is the best for me;
              But see it be in secret done,
              You know the Man I fix upon.
              If your Opinion be the same
              With mine, to prosecute the Scheme,
              You’ll find what Difficulty lies
              In all the Projects of the wise.

                                EPODOS.

                  We cannot have a fairer Wind,
                  Behold you see the Man is blind!
                  Helpless in Darkness there he lies;
                  Nocturnal Sleep has clos’d his Eyes.
                  No Motion, Hand, or Foot, or Breath,
                  He lies all silent there as Death;
                  But now he seems to look around,
                  And murmur out a deadly Sound.
                  Our Bus’ness is to seize him here;
                  Success is to be void of Fear.

   _Neop._ Be silent then and resolute; you see
 His Eyes are open’d, and his Head is rais’d.

   _Phil._ O Light succeeding Sleep, Death’s Image! see,
 Beyond my Hopes, the Stranger’s faithful Guard!
 This I could never hope, my Son, to find,
 That you with such Compassion cou’d behold
 The dismal racking Torments which I bear,
 And wait with kind Assistance, to relieve
 A poor afflicted Soul; not so the good,
 The great _Atridæ_, were they here, wou’d grant
 Such friendly Aid; But thou art gen’rous, good,
 And great; of Ancestors the same you’re sprung.
 My nauseous Wounds, my tiresome Groans you bore
 With unexampled Patience; now my Pains
 Abate, they’re gone, and sunk in sweet Oblivion,
 Do you yourself with helping Hand up raise me.
 Now that my Torture’s vanish’d, let us haste
 On Board; for Time requires our Speed.

   _Neop._ What Joys I feel at this surprizing Sight!
 To see you free from Pains and breathing still!
 For all the Marks of ghastly Death I saw
 In thy pale Face, by Life deserted quite.
 Arise, my Friend, and these shall bear thee hence,
 Well pleas’d to do’t if you and I command.

   _Phil._ I thank thee for thy Offer; but, my Son,
 Raise me thy self, lest the ungrateful Stench
 Offend their Nostrils; they must bear it all
 While I’m on Board, and giv’n to them in Charge.

   _Neop._ Thy Will is mine----But help to raise thy self.

   _Phil._ I shall; for well I’m us’d to this hard Task.

   _Neop._ Ye Gods! what shall I do?---- ----

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ----What’s this, my Son?
 What means this sudden Change? and why these Sighs?

   _Neop._ O my distracted Soul! what Doubts arise!

   _Phil._ And do you doubt, my Son? O never own it.

   _Neop._ My Suff’rings now are equal to his Pains. (_aside._)

   _Phil._ Are you offended at my foul Disease,
 And now relent to take me in your Ship?
 Is this the Hardship that weighs down your Spirits.

   _Neop._ All is a Hardship to a gen’rous Soul,
 When ’tis oblig’d to turn against its Nature;
 To act against Compassion, which was stampt
 Upon it’s Essence when it first began.

   _Phil._ But you do neither act nor speak a Thing
 That’s unbecoming of your noble Sire,
 In doing good to me a virtuous Man.

   _Neop._ But for the Character which I must bear,
 The base, the treach’rous Character, my Friend!
 That is my Grief, ’tis that which wounds me most.

   _Phil._ Your Actions give me no great Cause to fear,
 But your Expressions much alarm my Soul.

   _Neop._ Great _Jove_, what shall I do! I’m doubly curss’d,
 Both in concealing what I shou’d reveal,
 And speaking what I rather shou’d keep secret.

   _Phil._ If I mistake not I am now betray’d,
 And your Intent’s to leave me here behind.

   _Neop._ I shall not leave thee, but my only Grief
 Is that I take thee hence, to thy great Sorrow.

   _Phil._ What’s this you say, my Son? your Words explain.

   _Neop._ I shall no longer hide my Thoughts; you must
 For _Troy_ prepare, and to the _Grecian_ Fleet
 We must from hence to the _Atridæ_ sail.

   _Phil._ Ah me! what’s this?---- ----

   _Neop._ ---- ----Don’t grieve before you know.

   _Phil._ Know what? inform me what you mean to do.

   _Neop._ To free thee from this foul Disease, and then
 To lay _Troy_ waste by thy assisting Hand.

   _Phil._ Are you for certain then resolv’d on this?

   _Neop._ Necessity commands, you must obey;
 Be deaf to Anger, and in Peace submit.

   _Phil._ Undone! poor Wretch! betray’d! is’t thus you act,
 My Friend? O give me back my faithful Bow.

   _Neop._ That cannot be; for to the Pow’rs Supreme
 Justice and Publick Good command our Faith.

   _Phil._ All-seeing Sun, all Terror, all Deceit!
 Detested Wretch, what hast thou done to me?
 How am I now betray’d? dost thou not blush
 To see me thus on bended Knees before thee?
 Thou impious, cruel, base, destructive Man!
 Of Life you robb’d me when you took my Bow.
 O give it back, upon my Knees I beg;
 Return my Life’s Support, by all your Gods,
 Your Country Gods! don’t rob me of my Life.
 O wretched me! will you not speak one Word,
 But look averse, resolv’d to keep my Right?
 Ye Shores, ye Promontories, and ye Rocks,
 Ye Beasts, my dumb Companions in this Isle,
 To you I now complain; none else will hear
 My sad Complaints, to you I speak my Grief:
 To you so well acquainted with my Woes.
 See what the Son of great _Achilles_ does!
 He who has sworn to take me home, to _Troy_
 Now bears me; and forgetful of his Vow
 And plighted Hand, the sacred Bow he keeps,
 Which once belong’d to the great Son of _Jove_.
 He drags me to the hated _Greeks_ away,
 As if some mighty Conquest he had gain’d;
 What is his Triumph! but a poor dead Carcass!
 A Cloud of Smoak! an incorporeal Shade!
 Had I the Strength I once possess’d, in vain
 Wou’d he attempt (or ev’n as now I am)
 To force me; had he not o’ercome by Fraud.
 Now I’m betray’d, undone! what shall I do?
 Return my Bow, and be thy self again.
 No Answer; but dumb Silence; then I’m lost.
   To thee again, my pervious Rock, I go,
 Naked and void of any earthly Food;
 Now must I die enclos’d alone in thee.
 No Bird, or Mount-ascending Beast shall be
 Slain by my Bow; but I, poor lonely I,
 Who fed on them, shall be to them for Food;
 They’ll hunt for me for whom I hunted once;
 And Blood for Blood, and slain for slain I’ll be.
 This Evil’s from an unexpected Hand!
 O may you never die, before I know
 Whether for this base Action you repent!
 If not; I wish you an inglorious Death.

   _Chorus._ What shall we do? ’Tis now full Time to sail,
 To put in Execution our Commands.

   _Neop._ Compassion moves me for this friendless Man;
 And has long since engag’d my Heart to him.

   _Phil._ O for the Gods let pity plead for me!
 And do not brand thy self with such a Stain
 Of black Disgrace, as to be thought perfidious.

   _Neop._ What shall I do? I wish I never had
 Left _Scyros_ to be thus perplex’d with Woes.

   _Phil._ Thou’rt not inclin’d to wicked Deeds thy self,
 Thy Nature’s gentler far; some horrid Mind
 Suggested this to thee; let others whom
 So base a Crime befits perform this Task.

   _Neop._ What shall we do, my Friends---- ----

   _Ul._ ---- ---- ----Basest of Men!
 You think not to return the Bow again.

   _Phil._ O Heav’ns, methinks I hear _Ulysses_ speak!

   _Ul._ And you may see him too as well as hear him.

   _Phil._ Alas for me! deceiv’d! betray’d! undone!
 ’Tis he contriv’d the Fraud--he got my Bow.

   _Ul._ ’Twas I--I own the Fraud--and no one else.

   _Phil._ O give me back my Bow again---- ----

   _Ul._ ---- ---- ----Not I,
 But you shall march with it by Peace or Force.

   _Phil._ Detested Man! shall these use Force to me?

   _Ul._ They shall, except you willingly depart.

   _Phil._ O _Lemnian_ Land! and all-subduing Flames
 Of _Vulcan_! can you bear that I shou’d hence
 Be dragg’d by Force, in Spight of thy Protection?

   _Ul._ ’Tis _Jove_ that o’er this Isle presides; ’tis _Jove_;
 ’Tis _Jove_ decrees what I must execute.

   _Phil._ Impious _Ulysses_, what Pretence is this!
 You introduce the Gods to vouch your Lies.

   _Ul._ No. But my Truths;----Therefore be gone you must.

   _Phil._ This I deny---- ----

   _Ul._ ---- ----You shall, and must obey.

   _Phil._ Alas my Father has begot a Slave!
 To gen’rous Freedom I’m a perfect Stranger.

   _Ul._ Not so. But equal to those mighty Princes,
 With whom you’re destin’d to demolish _Troy_.

   _Phil._ Who I! all Racks I rather wou’d endure;
 I’d rather live for ever here alone.

   _Neop._ What do you mean to do?---- ----

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ----I mean to fall
 Headlong, and dash my Brains upon that Rock.

   _Ul._ Seize him, and take him from the Precipice.

   _Phil._ My Hands! what rude Affronts are these ye feel!
 Robb’d of your faithful Bow, your best Defence!
   You who have never fram’d one Thought of Good;
 Or shewn one gen’rous Principle within;
 How have you circumvented me! and gain’d
 Upon my honest Heart, under Disguise
 Of my Friend’s Son estrang’d, not fit to join
 With thee, as he was fit to take my Part;
 Artless to do but what he was enjoin’d----
 ’Tis evident he grieves at what is done;
 At his own Rashness, and my Suff’rings more;
 Thy wicked Soul, from dark Retirement, still
 Contriving Evils, gain’d upon his Weakness,
 And took Advantage of his tender Years;
 His unexperienc’d Years; to work thy Plot:
 And now, insulting Man, you bind me fast
 To take me from these Shores, where once you left me,
 Friendless, forsaken, banish’d, and alone;
 Dead ’midst the living; may some horrid Fate
 Attend thee for it; This I often pray’d.
 No Joys to me the Gods propitious give;
 You live in Pleasures; I am doom’d to Woes.
 And what is worse become a Sport to thee
 And the _Atridæ_, whom you come to serve.
 It was by Force and Stratagem compell’d
 You sail’d with them from _Greece_; I freely went
 With sev’n good Ships commanded by my self;
 From whence, as you relate, they cast me out;
 As they relate it all the Blame is thine.
 Whom come you now to take? why lead me hence?
 On what Account? For I am nothing now.
 Long since I’ve been translated to the Dead.
 Thou who art hated by the Gods above,
 Am I not lame, and loathsome, with my Wounds?
 How can you pray to them? or burn your Incense?
 Or with Libations those high Pow’rs invoke;
 While I am in the Ship, in which you sail?
 ’Twas this Pretence you made to leave me here.
 O may you perish for these Injuries!
 (I once again with Zeal repeat my Curse)
 For what you’ve done to me; _if Heav’n regards
 The just, and makes Reprizals for the wrongs
 They bear; and I am sure it does_--or else
 You had not hither come----some Sting divine
 Must goad you with Remorse, to think of me;
 O’erwhelm’d with all the Sorrows Man can bear.
 O my dear native Land! and all ye Gods!
 Who see what’s done within this World below,
 Avenge my present Suff’rings on them all,
 If ye can pity such a Wretch as me;
 In their Destruction I should find a Cure.

   _Chorus._ Wretched the Man, and grievous is his Speech!
 He has a Soul that will not stoop to Evils.

   _Ul._ I cou’d say many things in answer to
 This Speech of his, cou’d Arguments prevail;
 But now I use but one; for such ’tis meet;
 This is my Method with such Men as he;
 When there’s a Trial of the Just and Good,
 There’s none alive more piously inclin’d----
 My Reasons ever did subdue; but thee
 I can’t convince; for which I shall submit----
 Detain him not----but let him stay behind----
 We shall not need thee, while we have thy Bow;
 _Teucer_ can manage it as well as you;
 And I myself can bend the Bow as well,
 At least as you; and take as good an Aim----
 Where is the Use of thee?----Then fare thee well.
 Here traverse _Lemnos_; we shall sail away,
 And gain that Honour which you might obtain.

   _Phil._ What shall I do? Unhappy Wretch, Shall you
 Shine with those Arms among the hated _Greeks_?

   _Ul._ In vain you contradict, for now I go.

   _Phil._ Son of _Achilles_, won’t you speak one Word
 E’er you depart, but leave me thus forlorn.

   _Ul._ Begone without Regard, lest you relent;
 Your gen’rous Heart must not defeat our Fortune.

   _Phil._ Will ye, my Friends, fly off, and leave me thus?
 And have no pity for the Wrongs I feel?

   _Chorus._ This is our Captain; He determines all;
 What he prescribes must be a Law to us.

   _Neop._ I know _Ulysses_ will condemn me for
 The Tenderness I shew; However stay,
 If it seems good to _Philoctetes_; stay
 Until the Sailors have the Ship prepar’d,
 And we our Vows perform unto the Gods.
 Perhaps his Mind may change, and then we go,
 And see that you be ready at our Call.

                             ANTISTROPHICA.

                               STROPHE I.

 Phil.        My lonely Cave, my last Retreat,
              Expos’d alike to Cold and Heat;
              I never shou’d thy Limits leave,
              But make thee both my House and Grave.
              Alas! by me thy craggy Stones
              Are fill’d with Sobs, and Sighs, and Groans!
              What will become of me this Day!
              No Hopes to catch the flying Prey!
              I wish that Vultures here wou’d fly,
              And bear me swiftly to the Sky,
              And tear me piece-meal in the Air;
              This wretched Life I cannot bear.

                              STROPHE II.

                The Fault’s thy own,
                And thine alone
              ’Tis to your self you owe this Fate:
                ’Twas in your Breast
                To chuse the best,
              And yet you chose this dismal State.

   _Phil._ O wretched, wretched me! what Woes I find!
 Of human Conversation quite debarr’d!
 For ever--and for ever----to this Cave
 Confin’d----’till Death alone must give Release.
 No more I hope for Food; Life’s Fewel’s gone----
 The Birds in Safety hover o’er my Head----
 My Arrows lost! which were more swift than they----
 A dark and subtle Stratagem’s my Ruin----
 O cou’d I see its Author feel my Pains
 As long as I! what Pleasure wou’d it give!

 Chorus.      Not I, but Heav’n, I’d have thee know,
              Inflicts on thee this dreadful Blow;
              Thy Imprecations then refrain,
              And blame not others for thy Pain;
              For I’m resolv’d, against thy Will,
              To shew my Friendship for thee still.

   _Phil._ What shall I do? Upon the sandy Shore
 He bears the sure Provider of my Food----
 Which no Hand ever forc’d before; and there
 Derides my Woes, and jests upon my Torments.
 O my dear Bow, wrench’d from these friendly Hands,
 Cou’d you but see or feel the Wrongs I bear!
 That I, who did the Son of _Jove_ succeed,
 In Right of thee, must never more enjoy thee----
 But by a cursed Usurpation seiz’d,
 By one who had no Right to thy Succession.
 Coud’st thou but see this vile deceitful Man
 Of base Extraction, my insulting Foe;
 What num’rous Evils he contriv’d for me,
 How wou’d it grieve thee to be born by him!

 Chorus.        Whate’er this Person has express’d,
                You shou’d interpret it the best,
              Nor wrest his Meaning to invidious Sense;
                The publick Orders he obey’d
                Justly in ev’ry thing he said,
              And well contriv’d it for his Friends Defence.

   _Phil._ Ye wanton Fowl, that skim the liquid Air;
 Ye spotted Beasts that graze the sloaping Hills;
 Ye need not now be shy, to come within
 The Reach of this my solitary Cave;
 My Bow is ravish’d from me, my keen Shafts
 Are gone, and I am now compleatly wretched.
 What need ye fly from this unguarded Place!
 Now is your Time to come and make Reprizals;
 Eat me alive, and take your Flesh again;
 Soon I shall quit my Life for want of Food.
 Who can on empty Air support himself,
 Devoid of those Supplies, those Fruits which grow
 Our Nourishment from the Life-giving Earth?

 Chorus.      By all the Gods, if Strangers are
              Entitled to thy friendly Care,
              Let him a good Reception find,
              I thee conjure, with willing Mind.
              You may your present Grievance shun;
              For none but Fools to ruin run.

   _Phil._ Again, again my Anguish is renew’d;
 Thou best of Men why am I ruin’d thus?
 What’s this you do? why do you back re-call
 My sleeping Mem’ry to my former Pains?

   _Chorus._ Why say you so?---- ---- ----

   _Phil._ ---- ----Because you now propose
 With cruel Force to take me hence to _Troy_.

   _Chorus._ It best seems so to me---- ----

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ----Leave me behind.

   _Chorus._ This I’m content to do; therefore I shall
 Obey your Will----and to the Ship we go.

   _Phil._ Don’t for the Love of _Jove_, to whom we pray.

   _Chorus._ Be mod’rate then---- ----

   _Phil._ ---- ----O for the Gods don’t leave me.

   _Chorus._ What makes you roar with so much Vehemence?

   _Phil._ O Fortune, Fortune, I’m undone for ever!
 My painful, burning Foot, how shall I now
 Hereafter thy unhappy Wound sustain!
 Return, my Friends, ah! turn again to me.

   _Chorus._ What can we do but what you have desir’d?

   _Phil._ Why shou’d my loud Complaints provoke your Anger?
 I’m not my self; Distraction makes me wild.

   _Chorus._ Then be advis’d, and come along with us.

   _Phil._ No--never--never--firmly I’m resolv’d----
 Tho’ threat’ning _Jove_ with his red flaming Hand
 Shou’d come, and point his Thunder at my Breast;
 Farewel to _Troy_, and all the Army round it,
 Who cast me off for these distracting Pains.
 One thing I must entreat you, grant me one.

   _Chorus._ What’s that?---- ---- ----

   _Phil._ ---- ----A Sword, or Ax, or any Weapon.

   _Chorus._ What Murder wou’d you fain commit?----

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ---- ----My Head----
 My Limbs--with my own Hands, I’d chop them off;
 For my Disease does loudly call for Death.

   _Chorus._ Why so?----

   _Phil._ Because I want to go and seek my Father.

   _Chorus._ Speak in what Country----

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ---- ----With the Shades below;
 For he no longer lives upon the Earth.
 O my dear Father’s Country, how I long
 To see you once again! I who forsook
 Your sacred Altars to attend the _Greeks_,
 My greatest Foes; for which I’m thus rewarded.

   _Chorus._ Long since I had departed to my Ship,
 But that I see _Ulysses_ here advance,
 And _Neoptolemus_ attends him hither.

   _Ul._ Tell me the Reason why you hasten back?

   _Neop._ To mend the Wrongs I did some time ago.

   _Ul._ You shock me much. What were the Wrongs you did?

   _Neop._ ’Twas in obeying you and all the Army.

   _Ul._ What did you act repugnant to your Honour?

   _Neop._ By Fraud I did ensnare the Innocent.

   _Ul._ As how? Alas, what new Device is this?

   _Neop._ No new Device. But as to _Pæan_’s Son----

   _Ul._ What will you do? I dread what he intends.

   _Neop._ I will return his Bow again to him.

   _Ul._ O Heav’ns! what do you mean? You will not sure.

   _Neop._ I got them basely, ’gainst all Laws of Justice.

   _Ul._ Is’t to perplex me that you say this thing?
 Speak, by th’ Immortal Gods I must conjure thee.

   _Neop._ Is it perplexing to declare the Truth?

   _Ul._ What say’st thou? or what Speech is this that ’scapes
 Thy Lips? thou Son of great _Achilles_, tell.

   _Neop._ Once can’t suffice; but twice, or thrice I must
 Repeat my Words. You’re slow of Apprehension.

   _Ul._ I wish I had not heard thee once begin.

   _Neop._ Then be content; you’ve heard my Resolution.

   _Ul._ There is a certain Person will prevent thee.

   _Neop._ What say you? who will dare presume to do it?

   _Ul._ Why all the _Greeks_; and I amongst the rest.

   _Neop._ Tho’ you be wise you talk like one that’s mad.

   _Ul._ But you do neither think or act with Wisdom.

   _Neop._ _Justice surpasses Wisdom----I am just._

   _Ul._ How are you just, when what’s acquir’d by me,
 You now return without my Leave?--

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ---- ---- ----But I,
 ’Tis plain, was guilty of a horrid Crime.

   _Ul._ Do you not dread the _Grecian_ Army, Friend?

   _Neop._ When Justice sides with me I dread it not;
 Nor shall I ever by thy Pow’r be sway’d.

   _Ul._ I shall not with the _Trojans_ fight, but thee.

   _Neop._ Happen what will---- ---- ----

   _Ul._ ---- ---- ----You see my Right Hand fixt
 Upon the Handle of my Sword---- ----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ---- ---- ----I do;
 And am no less prepar’d to fight than you.

   _Ul._ Well, Sir--I’ll let the Army know your Mind,
 And they will find a way to punish you.

   _Neop._ You’re wise indeed, if always thus you act;
 You never will have any Cause to grieve----
   Thou Son of _Pæan_, _Philoctetes_, come
 And leave thy lonesome craggy Habitation.

   _Phil._ What Clamour’s this I hear disturbs my Cave?
 Why do ye call me out? For what, my Friends?
 Alas! some Evil sure. What brought you here?
 Is it to add Misfortunes to Misfortunes?

   _Neop._ Confide in me, and listen to my Words.

   _Phil._ So you dissembled once before when you
 Prov’d false, and robb’d me of my faithful Bow.

   _Neop._ I don’t dissemble now; but tell me whether
 You here intend to stay, or sail with us.

   _Phil._ Hold--not one Word--you speak them all in vain.

   _Neop._ You’re so resolv’d---- ---- ----

   _Phil._ ---- ----More fixt than Words can tell.

   _Neop._ All my Design was to perswade you hence;
 But since I find that my Proposal’s vain,
 And much afflicts your Mind, I shall desist.

   _Phil._ All that you say is vain, and you shall never
 Gain the Affection of my Heart; for you
 Basely betray’d me of my Life. And now,
 Thou worst of Men, worst Son of the best Father,
 You come with your Advice, whom most I hate.
 May the _Atridæ_ perish, and may you
 And your Companion, subtle, false _Ulysses_.

   _Neop._ Curse us no more, but here receive your Bow.

   _Phil._ How say you! sure I’m not deceiv’d again.

   _Neop._ No. By the Pow’r of sacred _Jove_ you’re not.

   _Phil._ How grateful is thy Speech, if this be true!

   _Neop._ It shall be true in Fact; here stretch thy Hand,
 And be Possessor of thy Arms again.

   _Ul._ This I forbid----I call the Gods to witness.
 In the _Atridæ_’s Name, and all the Army.

   _Phil._ Whose Voice is this, my Son? is’t not _Ulysses_?

   _Ul._ ’Tis I for certain, and I’ll take thee hence.
 Whether _Achilles’_ Son consents or no.

   _Phil._ You shall not triumph long, if once I take
 This Arrow, and direct it at thy Breast.

   _Neop._ O shoot him not----I beg thee lay it down.

   _Phil._ Restrain me not----My dearest Son let go.

   _Neop._ I will not---- ---- ----

   _Phil._ ----You have hindred me from killing
 An Enemy---- ---- ----

   _Neop._ ----’Tis neither good for you nor me.

   _Phil._ Thus much I’d have thee know, the _Grecian_ Chiefs
 Are Cowards all; but valiant in their Tongues.

   _Neop._ ’Tis true--But now you’ve got your Bow, your Anger
 Ceases of Course, and all Complaints of me.

   _Phil._ I grant they do; and O my Son! you’ve shewn
 The noble Race from whence you sprung, not from
 The subtle _Sisyphus_; but from _Achilles_,
 Famous among the Living, and the Dead.

   _Neop._ Thy Praises of my Father, and my self,
 Transport me much; but hear what I advise.
   _Whatever Lot by Heav’n’s assign’d to us
 We must with humble Patience bear, ’tis fixt,
 And once decreed must be unalterable._
   Those who submit to voluntary Woes
 Deserve not our Forgiveness, or Compassion.
   You are grown fierce with Anger, and won’t hear
 The Counsel of a Friend; for tho’ he comes
 With true Benevolence to set thee right;
 You spurn his Admonitions, and you deem
 Him as your greatest Foe. But still I’ll speak;
 And call great _Jove_ to witness what I say.
   Then hear the Sequel--print it in thy Mind--
 And be convinc’d this Wound, which frets thee so,
 Was Heav’n’s Decree; because you did approach
 The Guard of _Chrysa_, that same hidden Viper,
 Which watches the uncover’d Temple there.
 And know, thou never shalt enjoy Release
 From grievous Pain, while that all-seeing Sun
 Rises in th’ Eastern Clime, and sets again,
 Except you go a Voluntier to _Troy_;
 Where we shall have the Sons of _Æsculapius_
 To work thy Cure, and _Troy_ shall be subdu’d
 By these thy Arrows, and by my Assistance.
   How I’m inform’d of this be pleas’d to hear----
 We have a _Trojan_ Prophet taken Pris’ner,
 One _Helenus_, who says all this must be
 Fulfill’d, and he’s a Prophet of undoubted Credit;
 Nay more, he says this very Summer will
 The Fate of _Troy_ determine; if ’tis false
 He does declare his Life shall be the Forfeit.
   Now you’re assur’d of this, consent and come;
 It is a noble Prize, that you alone
 Of all the _Greeks_ shou’d be esteem’d the bravest;
 And next to have Release from all thy Pains;
 To gain a Conquest over _Troy_, that shall
 Bring you the greatest Glory Man can gain.

   _Phil._ Detested Life! why am I here preserv’d!
 Why not transmitted to the Shades below!
 What shall I do? How shall I now suspect
 His Truth, who’s so benevolent to me?
 But grant I yield; How then shall I behold
 The Light of Heav’n? To whom shall I appeal?
   Ye shining Orbs above, that view all things,
 How will ye bear to see me go, and join
 The Sons of _Atreus_, who were once my Ruin?
 Or join with all-destroying false _Ulysses_?
 ’Tis not the past that frets my anxious Soul,
 But the sad Prospects of my Grief’s to come;
 For they whose Minds are pregnant still with Evils,
 Pour forth a num’rous Brood, they never fail.
 I wonder more at you for this, who ought
 Never to think of _Troy_, when such Disgrace
 Befel you there, robb’d of your Father’s Armour,
 Which was adjudg’d to curss’d _Laertes’_ Son,
 And _Ajax_ turn’d aside; methinks you shou’d
 Use all your Pow’r to hinder me from going;
 Sure after such Affronts you cannot go
 To join in their Designs; and force me hence;
 But sacred keep your Oath, and steer us home;
 And there at _Scyros_ pass your Life in Peace;
 Let all those Wretches die as they deserve.
 Thus will you doubly please your aged Sire,
 And me, and equal Thanks from both receive;
 Thus you’ll escape a foul Surmise, nor be
 Suppos’d a Fav’rer of such wicked Men.

   _Neop._ All that you say is well. But still I wou’d
 Entreat you to obey the Gods and me;
 Sail with your Friend, and leave this hated Shore.

   _Phil._ What! to the Land of _Troy_! to _Atreus’_ Sons!
 And with this bleeding Foot, which oft reminds me
 What barb’rous Treatment I from them receiv’d.

   _Neop._ It is my best Advice; for there you’ll find
 A full Discharge of all the Pains you feel.

   _Phil._ What’s this you say? what’s the Advice you give?

   _Neop._ ’Tis what will bring Advantage to us both.

   _Phil._ Don’t you disgrace the Gods in saying this?

   _Neop._ No. But I rather their Commands fulfil.

   _Phil._ For the _Atridæ_ do you speak, or me?

   _Neop._ I am your Friend--and I shall say no more.

   _Phil._ Where is your Friendship, when you thus betray
 And give me up unto my Enemies?

   _Neop._ My Friend, be humbler in Adversity.

   _Phil._ I know you well, you now contrive my Ruin.

   _Neop._ Not I----But this I’ll say----You’re much mistaken.

   _Phil._ I don’t mistake, that I was here expos’d
 By the _Atridæ_, and by all the _Greeks_.

   _Neop._ Your Foes are now your Friends, and come to save you.

   _Phil._ I never will consent to go to _Troy_.

   _Neop._ What shall I do! since you reject my Counsel,
 I can with Ease desist; and say no more;
 But leave you to your Choice to live in Pain.

   _Phil._ Then give me leave to do what suits me best,
 And as you pledg’d your Right-hand’s Faith to do it,
 Conduct me home, my Son, without delay;
 And think no more of _Troy_;----I’ve griev’d enough.

   _Neop._ Since ’tis your Will we go----

   _Phil._ ---- ---- ----O gen’rous Word!

   _Neop._ Then let us move----

   _Phil._ ---- ----As well as Pains allow.

   _Neop._ How shall I shun the Fury of the _Greeks_?

   _Phil._ Let that be not thy Care----

   _Neop._ ---- ---- ----But what if they
 Shou’d come and work my Country’s Overthrow!

   _Phil._ Then I am there----

   _Neop._ ---- ----But how can you assist.

   _Phil._ I have the Arrows here of _Hercules_.

   _Neop._ What do you say?---- ----

   _Phil._ ----I’ll drive them from thy Country.

   _Neop._ If this you’ll do--march on--adore the Earth.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                SCENE V.

                     _Enter the Ghost of_ HERCULES.

   _Her._ O Son of _Pæan_, move not hence, before
 You hear my Words, and you yourself shall own
 You do not only hear, but see me too;
 ’Tis for your sake I leave my Heav’nly Mansion,
 Here to impart _Jove_’s Will; ’tis on his Errand
 I come, to stop the Journey you intend;
 Thy Bus’ness is my Counsel to obey.
   Then first I shall of my own Fate inform thee;
 How many Labours, Toils, and Pains, I pass’d,
 Immortal Glory to obtain; which now
 You may behold in me; ’tis destin’d too
 That you thro’ Danger’s Path arrive at Fame.
   With this Prince, going to the Town of _Troy_,
 The first Advantage you shall find, will be
 A Freedom from Disease; and next, the _Greeks_
 Shall well distinguish you the first in Valour,
 _Paris_ to slay, the Author of their Woes,
 With these my fatal never-failing Arrows.
 And _Troy_ shall sink by them; the richest Spoils
 Be thine, by full Consent of all the _Greeks_;
 These to thy Native _Oeta_ thou shalt send
 Unto thy Father _Pæan_. All the Spoils,
 Which from the _Grecian_ Army you shall take,
 Bear them unto my Pile, and there erect
 A Monument to this my faithful Bow.
   Son of _Achilles_, this Advice be thine----
 You must not think to conquer _Troy_ without
 His Help; or _Philoctetes_ without your’s;
 But, like two Lyon’s Whelps, each other’s Aid
 Engage; one Moment don’t ye part asunder.
   To cure thy Wounds, I’ll _Æsculapius_ bring
 To _Troy_, which must a second time submit
 To these my Arrows; But remember this----
 _When you the Conquest gain, return your Thanks
 To Heav’n for your Success; for _Jove_ regards
 Religious Rites above all human Acts.
 Religion, which attends departing Souls,
 Whether we live or die, is still immortal._

   _Phil._ O Voice desirable to me, tho’ long
 Unheard! I shall not disobedient be.

   _Neop._ To the same Counsel I with Joy subscribe.

   _Her._ Haste then and hoist your Sails; the Winds are fair.

   _Phil._ Off then I go; but let me thus express
 My last farewel, it is a Debt I owe.
   My little Cave, wherein I dwelt so long;
 Ye wat’ry Nymphs, which tread the verdant Meads;
 Ye stormy Sounds that break upon the Shore,
 Which often did convey your frothy Dews
 Upon my Head, as in my Cave I lay,
 And loudly of the Tempest’s Rage complain’d,
 ’Till the _Hermean_ Promontory rung.
 Ye Springs, from whose delicious Streams I drank,
 I leave ye all; beyond my Hopes I leave you;
 To thee, dear _Lemnos_, I must bid farewel,
 Which in the Ocean’s swelling Bosom liest;
 Grant us a lucky Voyage hence; and land
 Our Ship in Safety where the Fates decree;
 And where our Friends direct; where Heav’ns great King,
 Who conquers all, commands that we shou’d go.

 Chorus.      Then let us leave the _Lemnian_ Shore,
                  And all together sail;
              The Nymphs who guide the Seas implore
                  To send a prosp’rous Gale.

                                 FINIS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Transcriber’s Notes

This file uses _underscores_ to indicate italic text. In the original
printed text, the Argument and all verse passages were printed in italic
text, with upright text used for emphasis. For the sake of readability,
in those passages _underscores_ are used only for the emphasized
(upright) text. New original cover art included with this ebook is
granted to the public domain.

In some cases, two short lines of dialogue were printed on the same line
in the printed play; each of these has been moved to its own line. The
following changes and corrections have been made:

 • Dedication: Supplied missing period after phrase “some Traces of the
   Author’s Genius.”
 • p. 6: Capitalized and formatted heading “Strophe” to match other
   occurrences.
 • p. 13: Added comma after “Sigeum” in note 11.
 • p. 21: Supplied missing period after speaker “Neop.” before phrase
   “Do they intend / By Force of Arms.”
 • p. 40: Replaced “Friendip” with “Friendship” in phrase “To shew my
   Friendship for thee still.”
 • p. 43: Supplied missing period after speaker “Neop.” before phrase
   “Tho’ you be wise you talk like one that’s mad.”
 • p. 47: Replaced “Souls” with “Soul” in phrase “’Tis not the past that
   frets my anxious Soul.”


This eBook was produced by Juliet Sutherland, William Koven,
Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

SPECIMENS OF GREEK TRAGEDY

Translated By

GOLDWIN SMITH, D.C.L.

AESCHYLUS AND SOPHOCLES

1893

PREFACE.

Greek drama, forerunner of ours, had its origin in the festival of
Dionysus, god of wine, which was celebrated with dance, song, and
recitative. The recitative, being in character, was improved into the
Drama, the chief author of the improvement, tradition says, being
Thespis. But the dance and song were retained, and became the Chorus,
that peculiar feature of the Greek play. This seems to be the general
account of the matter, and especially of the combination of the lyric
with the dramatic element, so far as we can see through the mist of an
unrecorded age.

Thirlwall, still perhaps the soundest and most judicious, though not
the most vivid or enthusiastic, historian of Greece, traces the origin
of the Drama to "the great choral compositions uniting the attractions
of music and action to those of a lofty poetry, which formed the
favourite entertainment of the Dorian cities." This, he says, appears
to have been the germ out of which, by the introduction of a new
element, the recitation of a performer who assumed a character and
perhaps from the first shifted his mask, so as to exhibit the outlines
of a simple story in a few scenes parted by the intervening song of
the Chorus, Thespis and his successors unfolded the Attic Tragedy. Of
the further development of the Drama in the age of Pericles, Thirlwall
says:--

"The drama was the branch of literature which peculiarly signalised
the age of Pericles; and it belongs to the political, no less than to
the literary, history of these times, and deserves to be considered in
both points of view. The steps by which it was brought through a
series of innovations to the form which it presents in its earliest
extant remains, are still a subject of controversy among antiquarians;
and even the poetical character of the authors by whom these changes
were effected, and of their works, is involved in great uncertainty.
We have reason to believe that it was no want of merit, or of absolute
worth, which caused them to be neglected and forgotten, but only the
superior attraction of the form which the drama finally assumed. Of
Phrynichus in particular, the immediate predecessor of Aeschylus, we
are led to conceive a very favourable opinion, both by the manner in
which he is mentioned by the ancients who were acquainted with his
poems, and by the effect which it is recorded to have produced upon
his audience. It is clear that Aeschylus, who found him in undisputed
possession of the public favour, regarded him as a worthy rival, and
was in part stimulated by emulation to unfold the capacities of their
common art by a variety of new inventions. These, however, were so
important as to entitle their author to be considered as the father of
Attic tragedy. This title he would have deserved, if he had only
introduced the dialogue, which distinguished his drama from that of
the preceding poets, who had told the story of each piece in a series
of monologues. So long as this was the case, the lyrical part must
have created the chief interest; and the difference between the Attic
tragedy and the choral songs which were exhibited in a similar manner
in the Dorian cities was perhaps not so striking as their agreement.
The innovation made by Aeschylus altered the whole character of the
poem; raised the purely dramatic portion from a subordinate to the
principal rank, and expanded it into a richly varied and well
organised composition. With him, it would seem, and as a natural
consequence of this great change, arose the usage, which to us appears
so singular, of exhibiting what was sometimes called a trilogy, which
comprised three distinct tragedies at the same time."

Grote says:--

"The tragic drama belonged essentially to the festivals in honour of
the god Dionysus; being originally a chorus sung in his honour, to
which were successively superadded: First, an iambic monologue; next,
a dialogue with two actors; lastly, a regular plot with three actors,
and a chorus itself interwoven into the scene. Its subjects were from
the beginning, and always continued to be, persons either divine or
heroic above the level of historical life, and borrowed from what was
called the mythical past. 'The Persae' of Aeschylus, indeed, forms a
splendid exception; but the two analogous dramas of his contemporary,
Phrynichus, 'The Phoenissae,' and 'The Capture of Miletus,' were not
successful enough to invite subsequent tragedians to meddle with
contemporary events. To three serious dramas, or a trilogy--at first
connected together by a sequence of subject more or less loose, but
afterwards unconnected and on distinct subjects, through an innovation
introduced by Sophocles, if not before--the tragic poet added a fourth
or satyrical drama; the characters of which were satyrs, the
companions of the god Dionysus, and other historic or mythical persons
exhibited in farce. He thus made up a total of four dramas, or a
tetralogy, which he got up and brought forward to contend for the
prize at the festival. The expense of training the chorus and actors
was chiefly furnished by the choregi,--wealthy citizens, of whom one
was named for each of the ten tribes, and whose honour and vanity were
greatly interested in obtaining a prize. At first these exhibitions
took place on a temporary stage, with nothing but wooden supports and
scaffolding; but shortly after the year 500 B.C., on an occasion when
the poets Aeschylus and Pratinas were contending for the prize, this
stage gave way during the ceremony, and lamentable mischief was the
result. After that misfortune, a permanent theatre of stone was
provided. To what extent the project was realised before the
invasion of Xerxes we do not accurately know; but after his
destructive occupation of Athens, the theatre, if any existed
previously, would have to be rebuilt or renovated, along with
other injured portions of the city."

Curtius says:--

"Thespis was the founder of Attic tragedy. He had introduced a
preliminary system of order into the alternation of recitative and
song, into the business of the actor, and into the management of dress
and stage. Solon was said to have disliked the art of Thespis,
regarding as dangerous the violent excitement of feelings by means of
phantastic representation; the Tyrants, on the other hand, encouraged
this new popular diversion; it suited their policy that the poor
should be entertained at the expense of the rich; the competition of
rival tragic choirs was introduced; and the stage near the black
poplar on the market-place became a centre of the festive merry-
makings in Attica."

Curtius thinks that Pisistratus, as a popular usurper and opponent of
the aristocracy, encouraged the worship of the popular god Dionysus
with the Tragic Chorus, and he gives Pisistratus the credit of this
glorious innovation. A similar policy was ascribed to Cleisthenes of
Sicyon by Herodotus (v. 67).

The Chorus thus remaining wedded to the Drama, parts the action with
lyric pieces more or less connected with it, and expressive of the
feelings which it excites. In Aeschylus and Sophocles the connection
is generally close; less close in Euripides. The Chorus also
occasionally joins in the dialogue, moralising or sympathising,
and sometimes, it must be owned, in a rather commonplace and insipid
strain. In "The Eumenides" of Aeschylus, the chorus of Furies takes
part as a character in the drama; in "The Suppliants" it plays the
principal part.

The Drama came to perfection with Athenian art generally, and with
Athens herself in the period which followed the Persian war. The
performance of plays at the Dionysiac festival was an important event
in Athenian life. The whole city was gathered in the great open-air
theatre consecrated to Dionysus, whose priest occupied the seat of
honour. All the free men, at least, were gathered there; and when we
talk about the intellectual superiority of the Athenian people, we
must bear in mind that a condition of Athenian culture was the
delegation of industry to the slave. That audience was probably the
liveliest, most quick-witted, most appreciative, and most critical
that the world ever saw. Prizes were given to the authors of the best
pieces. Each tragedian exhibited three pieces, which at first formed a
connected series, though afterwards this rule was disregarded. After
the three tragic pieces was performed a satyric drama, to relieve the
mind from the strain of tragedy, and perhaps also as a conventional
tribute to the jollity of the god of wine. In the Elizabethan Drama
the tragic and comic are blended as they are in life.

The subjects were taken usually from mythology, especially from the
circle of legends relating to the siege of Troy, to the tragic history
of the house of Atreus, the equally tragic history of the house of
Laius, and the adventures of Hercules. The subject of "The Persae" of
Aeschylus is a contemporary event, but this, as Grote says, was an
exception. Heroic action and suffering, the awful force of destiny and
of the will of heaven, are the general themes of Aeschylus and
Sophocles; passion, especially feminine passion, is more frequently
the theme of Euripides. Romantic love, the staple of the modern drama
and novel, was hardly known to the Greeks, whose romantic affection
was friendship, such as that of Orestes and Pylades, or Achilles and
Patroclus. The only approach to romantic love in the extant drama is
the love of Haemon and Antigone in the "Antigone" of Sophocles; and
even here it is subordinate to the conflict between state law and law
divine, which is the key-note of the piece; while the lovers do not
meet upon the scene. The sterner and fiercer passions, on the whole,
predominate, though Euripides has given us touching pictures of
conjugal, fraternal, and sisterly love. In the "Oedipus Coloneus" of
Sophocles also, filial love and the gentler feelings play a part in
harmony with the closing scene of the old man's unhappy life. In the
"Philoctetes," Sophocles introduces, as an element of tragedy,
physical pain, though it is combined with moral suffering.

A popular entertainment was of course adapted to the tastes of the
people. Debate, both political and forensic, was almost the daily
bread of the people of Athens. The Athenian loved smart repartee and
display of the power of fencing with words. The thrust and parry of
wit in the single-line dialogues (_stichomythia_) pleased them
more than it pleases us. Rhetoric had a practical interest when not
only the victory of a man's opinions in the political assembly, but
his life and property before the popular tribunal, might depend on his
tongue. The Drama was also used in the absence of a press for
political or social teaching, and for the insinuation of political or
social opinions. In reading these passages we must throw ourselves
back twenty-three centuries, into an age when political and social
observation was new, like politics and civilised society themselves,
and ideas familiar to us now were fresh and struggling for expression.
The remark may be extended to the political philosophy which struggles
for expression in the speeches of Thucydides.

The trio of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides has been compared with
that of Marlowe, Shakespeare, and Beaumont and Fletcher, and with that
of Corneille, Racine, and Voltaire. The parallel will hardly hold good
except as an illustration of the course of youth, perfection, and
decay through which every art or product of imagination seems to run,
unlike science,  which continually advances. The epoch of the Athenian
three, like that of the Elizabethan three, like that of the great
Spanish dramatists, was one of national achievement, and their drama
was thoroughly national; whereas the French drama was the highly
artificial entertainment of an exclusive Court.

Aeschylus (B.C. 525-456) was the heroic poet of Athens. He had fought
certainly at Marathon, and, we may be pretty sure, at Salamis, so that
the narrative of the battle of Salamis in "The Persae" is probably
that of an eye-witness; and that he had fought at Marathon, not that
he had won the prize in drama, was the inscription which he desired
for his tomb. He is of the old school of thought and sentiment, full
of reverence for religion and for eternal law. The growing scepticism
had not touched him. His morality is lofty and austere. In politics he
was a conservative, of the party of Cimon, opposed to the radically
democratic party of Pericles; and his drama, especially the Oresteian
trilogy, teems with conservative sentiment and allusion. His
characters are of heroic cast. He deals superbly with the moral forces
and destiny; though it may be that more philosophy has been found in
him, especially by his German commentators, than is there, and that
obscurity arising from his imperfect command of language has sometimes
been mistaken for depth. His "Agamemnon" is generally deemed the
masterpiece of Greek tragedy. His language is stately and swelling, in
keeping with the heroic part of his characters; sometimes it is too
swelling, and even bombastic. Though he is the greatest of all, art in
him had not arrived at technical perfection. He reminds us sometimes
of the Aeginetan marbles, rather than the frieze of the Parthenon.

In Sophocles (B.C. 495-405) the dramatic art has arrived at technical
perfection. His drama is regarded as the literary counterpart of the
Parthenon. Its calm and statuesque excellence exactly met the
requirements of the taste which we call classic, and seems to
correspond with the character of the dramatist, which was notably
gentle, and with his form, which was typically beautiful. His
characters are less heroic, and nearer to common humanity than those
of Aeschylus. He appeals more to pity. His art is more subtle,
especially in the treatment, for which he is famous, of the irony of
fate. In politics, social sentiment, and religion, while he is more of
the generation of Pericles than Aeschylus, he is still conservative
and orthodox. If he belongs to democracy, it is a democracy still kept
within moral bounds, and owning a master in its great chief, with whom
he seems to have been personally connected. Nor does he ever court
popularity by bringing the personages of the heroic age down to the
common level. He, as well as Aeschylus, is dear to Aristophanes, the
satiric poet of conservatism, while Euripides is hateful.

Euripides (B.C. 480-406) perhaps slightly resembles Voltaire in this,
that he belongs to a different historic zone from his two
predecessors, from Sophocles as well as from Aeschylus, in political
and social sentiment, though not in date. He belongs to a full-blown
democracy, and is evidently the dramatic poet of the people. To please
the people he lays dignity and stateliness aside, brings heroic
characters down to a common level, and introduces characters which are
unheroic. He gives the people plenty of passion, especially of
feminine passion, without being nice as to its sources, or rejecting
such stories as those of Phaedra and Medea, which would have been
alien to the taste, not only of Aeschylus, but of Sophocles. He gives
them plenty of politics, plenty of rhetoric, plenty of discussion,
political and moral, plenty of speculation, which in those days was
novel, now and then a little scepticism. His "Alcestis" is melodrama
verging on sentimental comedy, and heralding the sentimental comedy of
Menander known to us in the versions of Terence. The chord of pathos
he can touch well. His degradation, as the old school thought it, of
the drama of Aeschylus and Sophocles, and what they deemed his
pandering to vulgar taste, brought upon him the bitter satire of
Aristophanes. Yet he did not win many prizes. Perhaps the vast theatre
and the grand choric accompaniments harmonised ill with his unheroic
style. He is clearly connected with the Sophists, and with the
generation the morality of which had been unsettled by the violence of
faction and the fury of the Peloponnesian war. Still there is no
reason for saying that he preached moral scepticism or impiety.
Probably he did not intend to preach anything, but to please his
popular audience and to win the prize. The line quoted against him,
"My lips have sworn, but my mind is unsworn," read in its place, has
nothing in it immoral. Perhaps he had his moods: he was religious when
he wrote "The Bacchae." As little ground is there for dubbing him a
woman-hater. If he has his Phaedra and Medea, he has also his Alcestis
and Electra. He seems to have prided himself on his choric odes. Some
of them have beauty in themselves, but they are little relevant to the
play.

A full and critical account of the plays will not be expected in the
Preface to a series of extracts; it will be found in such literary
histories as that of Professor Mahaffy. Nor can it be necessary to
dilate on the merit of the pieces selected. The sublime agony of
Prometheus Bound, the majesty of wickedness in Clytaemnestra,
the martial grandeur of the siege of Thebes, or of the battle of
Salamis, in Aeschylus; the awful doom of Oedipus, his mysterious end,
the heroic despair of Ajax, the martyrdom of Antigone to duty, in
Sophocles; the passion of Phaedra and Medea, the conjugal
self-sacrifice of Alcestis, the narratives of the deaths of Polyxena
and the slaughter of Pentheus by the Bacchae, in Euripides, speak for
themselves, if the translation is at all faithful, and find their best
comment in the reader's natural appreciation.

The number of those who do not read the originals will be increased by
the dropping of Greek from the academical course. To give them
something like an equivalent for the original in English is the object
of a translation. As prose can never be an equivalent for poetry, and
as the thoughts and diction of poetry are alien to prose, it is
necessary to run the risks of a translation in verse. To translate as
far as possible line for line, is requisite in the case of the Greek
dramatists, if we would not lose the form and balance which are of the
essence of Greek art. It is necessary also to preserve as much as
possible the simplicity of diction, and to avoid words and phrases
suggestive of very modern ideas. After all, it is difficult, with a
material so motley and irregular as the English language, to produce
anything like the pure marble of the Greek. There are translations of
Greek tragedies or parts of them by writers of high poetic reputation,
which are no doubt poetry, but are not Greek art.

The lyric portions of the Greek Drama are admired and even
enthusiastically praised by literary judges whose verdict we shall not
presume to dispute. To translation, however, the choric odes hardly
lend themselves. Their dithyrambic character, their high-flown
language, strained metaphors, tortuous constructions, and frequent,
perhaps studied, obscurity, render it almost impossible to reproduce
them in the forms of our poetry. Nor perhaps when they are strictly
analysed will much be found, in many of them at least, of the material
whereof modern poetry is made. They are, in fact, the libretto of a
chant accompanied by dancing, and must have owed much to the melody
and movement. In attempting to render the grand choric odes of the
"Agamemnon," moreover, the translator is perplexed by corruptions of
the text and by the various interpretations of commentators, who,
though they all agree as to the moral pregnancy and sublimity of the
passage, frequently differ as to its precise meaning. A metrical
translation of these odes in English is apt to remind us of the
metrical versions of the Hebrew Psalms. A part of one chorus in
Aeschylus, which forms a distinct picture, has been given in
rhythmical prose; three choruses of Sophocles and two of Euripides
have, not without misgiving, been rendered in verse.

The spelling of proper names is in a state of somewhat chaotic
transition which makes it difficult to take a definite course. The
precisians themselves are not consistent: they still speak of Troy,
Athens, Plato, and Aristotle. In the versions themselves the Greek
forms have been preferred, though a pedantic extreme has been avoided.
In the Preface and Introduction the forms familiar to the English
reader have been used.

For Aeschylus and Euripides, the editions of Paley in the _Bibliotheca
Classica_ have been used; for Sophocles, that of Mr. Lewis Campbell.

CONTENTS

PREFACE

AESCHYLUS.

PROMETHEUS BOUND.

Introduction

Prometheus is brought in by the Spirits of Might and Force, Hephaestus
accompanying them. Lines 1-113

The Sin of Prometheus. Lines 444-533

Prometheus defies Zeus. Lines 928-1114

THE PERSIANS.

Introduction

Atossa's Dream. Lines 1478-216

The Battle of Salamis and the Destruction of the Persian Fleet. Lines
251-473

THE SEVEN AGAINST THEBES.

Introduction

The Champions. Lines 370-673

AGAMEMNON.

Introduction

The Fall of Troy announced at Mycenae. Lines 1-39

The Chorus recounts the Sacrifice of Iphigenia. Lines 177-240

The Meeting of Agamemnon and Clytaemnestra. Lines 828-947

Cassandra's Prophecy. Lines 1149-1391

Cassandra's Prophecy fulfilled. Lines 1343-1554

THE CHOËPHOROE.

Introduction

Orestes discovers himself to Electra. Lines 158-274

Clytaemnestra pleads to her Son Orestes for her Life in Vain. Lines
860-916

THE EUMENIDES (FURIES).

Introduction

Orestes is tried as a Matricide before the Court of the Areopagus at
Athens. Lines 536-747

SOPHOCLES.

OEDIPUS THE KING.

Introduction

The Plague-stricken Thebans supplicate Oedipus for Relief. Lines 1-77

Oedipus calls upon Tiresias to reveal the Murderer of Laius. Lines
300-462

The Death of Polybus announced. The Secret of Oedipus's Incest and
Murder revealed. Lines 924-1085

Jocasta hangs herself and Oedipus puts out his Eyes. The Scene
described. Lines 1223-1296

Oedipus bewails his Calamities. His Colloquy with Creon. Lines
1369-1514

OEDIPUS AT COLONUS.

Introduction

Oedipus and Antigone arrive at Colonus and enter the Consecrated
Ground. Lines 1-110

The Chorus chants the Praises of Colonus. Lines 668-719

Length of Days: Choric Hymn. Lines 1211-1238

The End of Oedipus. Lines 1579-1667

ANTIGONE.

Introduction

Antigone proposes to Ismene to take a Part in paying the Last Rites to
their Brother Polynices. Lines 1-99

Antigone is caught by the Guard paying Funeral Rites to the Corpse of
Polynices, and is brought before Creon. Lines 384-581

A Colloquy between Creon and his Son Haemon, to whom Antigone is
betrothed. Lines 631-780

The Power of Love: Choric Hymn. Lines 781-800

Antigone is sent to her Death by Creon. Lines 882-928

Creon, having been brought to Repentance by the Denunciations of the
Prophet Tiresias, sets out to bury the Corpse of Polynices and release
Antigone from the Cave of Death. The Issue is recounted by a Messenger
to the Queen, Eurydice. Lines 1155-1243

AJAX.

Introduction

Tecmessa, a Captive with whom Ajax lives as his Wife, tells the Chorus
of Salaminian Mariners what has befallen their Chieftain. Lines
284-330

Ajax bewails his own Fall. Tecmessa tries to comfort him and turn him
from Violent Courses. Lines 430-595

Ajax pretends to be softened, and to be going forth only for the
Harmless Purpose of Purification in a Running Stream, though he is
really going to his Death. Lines 646-692

The Last Speech of Ajax. Lines 815-865

ELECTRA.

Introduction

The Tutor of Orestes tells Clytaemnestra a Fictitious Story of her
Son's Death by a Fall in a Chariot Race. Electra is on the Scene.
Lines 660-822

Electra's Sister Chrysothemis, having found the offerings of Orestes
on his Father's Tomb, brings what she deems glad Tidings to Electra,
who meets her with the Announcement that the Pedagogos has just
brought Certain News of their Brother's Death. Electra, now reduced to
Despair, proposes to Chrysothemis that they should themselves attempt
to slay Aegisthus. Lines 871-1057

Orestes enters with the Urn which, it is pretended, contains his
Ashes. His Recognition ensues. Lines 1097-1231

THE TRACHINIAE

Introduction

Deianira imparts the Secret of her Device for regaining the Love of
her Husband, Hercules, and puts the Fatal Robe into the Hands of
Lichas, the Herald, that he may carry it to Hercules. Lines 531-632

Deianira recounts to the Chorus an Alarming and Portentous Incident.
Then Hyllus, the Son of Hercules, comes and announces the Catastrophe.
Lines 663-820

PHILOCTETES.

Introduction

Ulysses explains the Plan of Action to Neoptolemus, and labours to
bend him to his Purpose. Lines 1-134

Neoptolemus having filched the Bow of Philoctetes, Philoctetes prays
him to restore it. Lines 927-962

AESCHYLUS

PROMETHEUS BOUND.

Prometheus, the good Titan, has been raising mankind from the
condition of primeval brutes by teaching them the arts of
civilisation. At last he steals fire from heaven for their use.
By this he incurs the wrath of Zeus, who, having deposed his
father Chronos, has become king of the gods. As a punishment
Prometheus is condemned by Zeus to be chained to a rock in the
Caucasus, with an eagle always feeding on his breast. But Prometheus
knows the secret of a mysterious marriage which is destined in time to
take place, and by the offspring of which Zeus in his turn is to be
dethroned. Strong in his consciousness of this, he defies Zeus, who by
the agency of Hermes tries in vain to wrest the secret from him. The
persons of the drama, besides Prometheus, are Hephaestus, better known
by his Latin name of Vulcan, Might and Force personified, Hermes the
messenger of Heaven, and the wandering Io. The chorus consists of sea-
nymphs, who sympathise with the suffering Prometheus. This drama is a
sublime enigma. Aeschylus was conservative and deeply religious. How
could he write a play the hero of which is a benefactor of man
struggling against the tyranny of the king of the gods, and the sequel
of which found a fit and congenial composer in Shelley, whose
sentiment and manner the "Prometheus Bound" wonderfully anticipates
and perhaps helped to form? Again, how could the Athenians, in an age
when their piety had not yet given way to scepticism, have endured
such dramatic treatment of the chief of the gods? It is almost as if a
Mystery Play had been presented in the Middle Ages with Satan for the
hero and the First Person of the Trinity in the character of an
oppressor. Perhaps the position of Zeus in the drama as a usurper may,
in some degree, have softened the religious effect.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prometheus is brought in by the Spirits of Might and Force,
Hephaestus accompanying them.

LINES 1-113.

SCENE: _The Caucasus_.

MIGHT.

Unto earth's utmost boundary we have come,
To Scythia's realm, th' untrodden wilderness.
Hephaestus, now it is thy part to do
The Almighty Father's bidding, and to bind
This arch-deceiver to yon lowering cliff
With bonds of everlasting adamant.
Thy attribute, all-fabricating fire,
He stole and gave to man. Such is the crime
For which he pays the penalty to Heaven,
That he may learn henceforth meekly to bear
The rule of Zeus and less befriend mankind.

HEPHAESTUS.

Spirits of Might and Force, by you the word
Of Zeus has been fulfilled; your task is done.
But I--to bind a god, one of my kin,
To a storm-beaten cliff, my heart abhors.
And yet this must I do, for woe is him
That does not what the Almighty Sire commands.
Thou high-aspiring son of Themis sage,
Unwilling is the hand that rivets thee
Indissolubly to this lonely rock,
Where thou shalt see no face and hear no voice
Of man, but, scorched by the sun's burning ray,
Change thy fair hue for dark, and long for night
With starry kirtle to close up the day,
And for the morn to melt the frosts of night,
Still racked with tortures endlessly renewed,
And which to end redeemer none is born.
Such is the guerdon of thy love for man.
A god thyself, thou gav'st, despite the gods,
To mortals more than is a mortal's due.
And therefore must thou keep this dreary rock,
Erect, with frame unbending, reft of sleep,
And many a bootless wail of agony
Shalt utter. Change of mind in Zeus is none,
Ruthless the rule when power is newly won.

MIGHT.

To work! A truce to these weak wails of ruth.
Whom the gods hate why dost thou not abhor--
Him that betrayed thy attribute to man?

HEPHAESTUS.

Great force have kindred and companionship.

MIGHT.

True, but to disobey the Almighty Sire
How canst thou dare? Fearest thou not this more?

HEPHAESTUS.

Relentless still and pitiless art thou.

MIGHT.

Thy wailings are no medicines for his woes;
Then waste no pains on that which profits naught.

HEPHAESTUS.

O thrice accurs'd this master-craft of mine!

MIGHT.

Why dost thou curse it? Simple truth to say,
Thy art is no way guilty of these ills.

HEPHAESTUS.

Would it had fallen to any lot but mine.

MIGHT.

The one thing to the gods themselves denied
[Footnote: In this passage I have retained the old reading eprachthae
with the interpretation of the Scholiast.]
Is sovereignty, for Zeus alone is free.

HEPHAESTUS.

Too well I know it, and gainsay it not.

MIGHT.

Be quick, then, and make fast this sinner's chain,
Lest the Almighty see thee loitering.

HEPHAESTUS.

Here are the fetters for his arms; behold them.

MIGHT.

Grasp him, and with thy hammer round his arms
Strike and strike hard and clench them to the rock.

HEPHAESTUS.

The work goes on apace and tarries not.

MIGHT.

Strike harder, clench, leave nothing loose; his craft,
E'en in extremity, can find a way.

HEPHAESTUS.

This arm is fixed past any power to loose.

MIGHT.

Clench now the other firmly; let him know
That all his cunning is no match for Zeus.

HEPHAESTUS.

Fault with my work can no one find save he.

MIGHT.

Drive then the ruthless spike of adamant
Right through the sinner's breast and see it holds.

HEPHAESTUS.

Alas, Prometheus! I bemoan thy pains.

MIGHT.

Thou loiterest, moaning for the foe of Zeus;
One day thou mayest be moaning for thyself.

HEPHAESTUS.

Thou see'st a sight most piteous to behold.

MIGHT.

I see yon sinner meeting his desert.
Proceed, make fast the fetters round his sides.

HEPHAESTUS.

Needs must I do it, press me not too hard.

MIGHT.

Press thee I will, and shout into thine ear.
Go down and clench the gyves about his legs.

HEPHAESTUS.

That work with little labour has been done.

MIGHT.

Now let thy hammer all the bonds make fast;
The overseer of this thy work is stern.

HEPHAESTUS.

Thy speech is ruthless as thy looks are grim.

MIGHT.

Be thou soft-hearted an thou wilt, but spare
To flout my sternness and my strong resolve.

HEPHAESTUS.

Let us be gone; the gyves are on his legs.

MIGHT.

There revel in thy insolence, there rob
Gods of their attributes to give to man.
Can mortal man in aught thy durance ease?
Ill chosen was the name that thou hast borne.
Foresight it means, but thou dost foresight need
To set thy limbs free from his handiwork.

PROMETHEUS.

O glorious firmament; O swift-winged winds,
Ye rivers and ye gleaming ocean waves
Innumerable, and thou great Mother Earth,
Thou, too, O sun, with thy all-seeing eye,
Look how a god is treated by the gods!
See the pains that I must bear,
Even to the thousandth year!
Such the chains that heaven's new king
Forges for my torturing.
Ah me! Ah me! my present woe
Does but the pangs to come foreshow,
Pangs that an end will never know.

Yet hold! The darkness of futurity
Is to my eye not dark, nor can aught come
That I do not foresee. Our destiny
We all must bear as lightly as we may,
Since none may wrestle with necessity.
And yet to speak or not to speak alike
Is miserable. High service done to man--
For this I bear the adamantine chain.
I to its elemental fountain tracked,
In fern-pith stored and bore by stealth away,
Fire, source and teacher of all arts to men.
Such mine offence, whereof the penalty
I pay, thus chained in face of earth and heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

_THE SIN OF PROMETHEUS_.

LINES 444-533.

PROMETHEUS.

Think not it is from pride or wantonness
That I forbear to speak; my heart is wrung
With looking on these ignominious bonds.
Who was it that to these new deities
Their attributes apportioned? Who but I?
Of that no more; to you as well as me
The tale is known; but list while I recount
How vile was man's estate, how void was man
Of reason, till I gave him mind and sense.
Not that I would upbraid the race of men:
I would but show my own benevolence.
Eyesight they had, yet nothing saw aright;
Ears, and yet heard not; but like forms in dreams,
For ages lived a life confused, nor bricks
Nor woodwork had to build them sunny homes,
But dwelt beneath the ground, as do the tribes
Diminutive of ants, in sunless caves.
Nor had they signs to mark the season's change,
Coming of winter or of flowery spring
Or of boon summer; but at random wrought
In all things, till I taught them to discern
The risings and the settings of the stars;
The use of numbers, crown of sciences,
Was my invention; mine were letters too,
The implement of mind in all its works.
First I trained beasts to draw beneath the yoke,
The collar to endure, the rider bear,
And thus relieve man of his heaviest toils.
First taught the steed, obedient to the rein,
To draw the chariot, wealth's proud appanage.
Nor, before me, did any launch the barque
With its white wings to rove the ocean wave.
These blessings, hapless that I am, have I
Devised for man, and yet device have none
Myself to liberate from these fell bonds.

CHORUS.

Sad is thy lot, to thy unwisdom due.
Now, like a bad physician that himself
Has into sickness fallen, thou dost despair
And hast no medicine for thine own disease.

PROMETHEUS.

Hear what remains, and thou wilt wonder more
At all the feats of my inventive mind.
Greatest of all was this; when they fell sick
Men had no help, no medicine edible,
Potion or ointment, but for lack of cure
Wasted away and perished, till my skill
Taught them to mix the juice of sovran herbs,
With which they now ward off all maladies.
Of divination many ways I traced,
Laid down the rules for telling which of dreams
Would be fulfilled, and of foreboding sounds
The mystery unfolded. Then I taught
What sights are ominous to wayfarers.
I showed which of the birds that wing the heavens
Were lucky, which unlucky, and what were
Their loves and hatreds and foregatherings.
Then what the flesh of victims signified,
Of its appearances which pleased the gods,
How shaped, how streaked each part behoved to be,
And the burnt offerings on the altar laid,
Thighs wrapped in fat and chine. I read the signs
Of sacrificial flames unread before.
More yet I did; the wealth that lurks for man
In earth's dark womb,--gold, silver, iron, brass,--
Who was it brought all this to light but I?
All others lie who would the honour claim.
In one short sentence a long tale is told
Alone Prometheus gave all arts to man.

CHORUS.

Take heed; be not to mortals overkind,
But to thyself in this dire strait unkind.
Good hope have I, one day to see thee stand
Free from those bonds and mate the power of Zeus.

PROMETHEUS.

Not yet that consummation fate ordains.
A thousand years of agony must pass
Before my tortured frame puts off this chain.
For skill is weak matched with necessity.

CHORUS.

Who, then, is pilot of necessity?

PROMETHEUS.

Fates three, and the unchanged Erinnyes.

CHORUS.

And have these powers the mastery over Zeus?

PROMETHEUS.

Not Zeus himself can baffle destiny.

CHORUS.

What is his destiny but endless rule?

PROMETHEUS.

I may not tell thee; importune me not.

CHORUS.

Dread is the secret that thou hidest thus.

PROMETHEUS.

Think of some other question; this to tell
The time is not yet ripe; deep in my breast
The secret must be buried; thus alone
May I from chains and tortures be set free.

       *       *       *       *       *

_PROMETHEUS DEFIES ZEUS_.

LINES 928-1114.

PROMETHEUS.

Yet, yet shall Zeus, for all his proud self-will,
Be humbled. On a wedlock he is bent
Whereof the fateful offspring shall one day
Hurl him from sovereignty to nothingness,
And so fulfil the curse old Chronos spake,
When from his immemorial throne he fell.
And this his doom how to escape not one
Of all the gods can rede him saving I.
But to me all is known. Then let him sit
Triumphant while his thunders roll through heaven,
And his hand grasps the flaming thunderbolt;
All his artillery shall not save its lord
From utter shame and ruin bottomless.
Such the antagonist himself arrays
Against himself, dread and invincible,
One who a fiercer than the lightning's flame,
A louder than the thunder's peal shall find,
And wrest the truncheon that makes earth to quake,
Poseidon's trident, from its wielder's hand.
Wrecked on misfortune's rock, he then shall know
How high it is to reign, to serve how low.

CHORUS.

Thy wish is father to thy prophecy.

PROMETHEUS.

My wish is one with destiny's decree.

CHORUS.

Think'st thou that Zeus will e'er his master find?

PROMETHEUS.

Ay! and a load harder than mine to bear.

CHORUS.

Dost thou not fear to cast such words at Zeus?

PROMETHEUS.

What should I fear when I must never die?

CHORUS.

But Zeus may yet enhance thine agony.

PROMETHEUS.

Prepared for all, his malice I defy.

CHORUS.

'Tis wise to bow to the inevitable.

PROMETHEUS.

Cringe, if thou wilt, sue, bend the knee to power.
Little reck I of Zeus. Then let him work
His tyrant will for his allotted span.
Not long shall he be monarch of the gods.
But lo! the Almighty's henchman I behold,
That errands bears for this new dynasty;
His lacqueyship must some new fiat bring.

(_Enter_ HERMES.)

HERMES.

Thou of the crafty soul and bitter tongue,
Sinner, that did'st betray to mortal man
The attributes of gods, stealer of fire,
The Father bids thee tell what wedlock this
That thou dost boast shall hurl him from his throne.
Speak plain, Prometheus, and take heed that I
Have not a second journey, for such shifts,
As well thou seest, turn not the heart of Zeus.

PROMETHEUS.

High are the words and full of majesty
For him that runs the errands of the gods.
New are ye, new to rule, and deem your tower
Of puissance proof against calamity.
Yet therefrom two lords I have seen cast out;
A third, him that now reigns, cast out shall see
Most quickly and most foully. Think'st thou I
Will crouch before these gods of yesterday?
Far, far from me that thought of shame. Do thou
The way thou camest measure back with speed,
For to thy question I give answer none.

HERMES.

It was by such self-will before displayed,
That thou did'st pluck these woes upon thy head.

PROMETHEUS.

My woes, how great so e'er, I would not change
For servitude like thine; of that be sure.

HERMES.

Better, thou think'st, be bondsman to this rock
Than be the faithful pursuivant of Zeus.

PROMETHEUS.

'Tis meet the scorner should be met with scorn.

HERMES.

Thou seem'st to revel in thy present lot.

PROMETHEUS.

Revel! I would that I could see my foes
Thus revelling, of whom I count thee one.

HERMES.

Layest thou the blame on me of thy mischance?

PROMETHEUS.

I hate, without exception, all the gods
Who my good deeds with injury requite.

HERMES.

Thy words bespeak no common sickness thine.

PROMETHEUS.

If hating foes be sickness, I am sick.

HERMES.

Thou wert past bearing wert thou prosperous.

PROMETHEUS.

Alas!

HERMES.

Zeus knows not how to say Alas!

PROMETHEUS.

Time in its course can teach us anything.

HERMES.

Yet thee it has not taught to rule thy tongue.

PROMETHEUS..

No, else I had not parleyed with a slave.

HERMES.

It seems thou wilt not tell what Zeus demands.

PROMETHEUS.

Were I his debtor I the debt would pay.

HERMES.

As though I were a child thou twittest me.

PROMETHEUS.

Art thou not sillier than a silly child,
To think that I will tell thee what thou ask'st?
No torture does Zeus know, he has no rack
By which he can my secret wrest from me,
Till from these cruel bonds I am released.
Let him hurl lightnings with his red right hand,
Let him with whirling snow and earthquake shock,
Confound and wreck this universal frame,
Never shall he constrain me to reveal
The child of fate that hurls him from his throne.

HERMES.

Look, will this insolence amend thy lot?

PROMETHEUS.

I have well looked, and fixed is my resolve.

HERMES.

Bow thy proud soul, insensate wretch, and do
What wisdom bids in thine extremity.

PROMETHEUS.

Waste no more words, thou dost but chide the sea;
Dream not that I can be o'erawed by Zeus,
That I will from my manhood derogate
And sue to him that from my soul I hate,
With womanish uplifting of my hands,
For liberation from these fetters.--Never!

HERMES.

Methinks I spend my eloquence in vain,
For all my prayers nor melt nor move thy heart.
Like a raw colt that pulls against the reins,
Taking the bit between his teeth, art thou.
And yet thy mettle will but weakness prove;
For dogged resolution by itself,
With wisdom unallied, is impotence.
See if thou wilt not to my words give ear,
What stormy billows of resistless woe
Will overwhelm thee. First the Almighty Sire
Will with his thunder cleave this beetling rock,
And bury thee beneath its shattered base,
Within its stony arms enfolding thee;
And many an age shall pass ere thou return
To daylight. Then the winged hound of Zeus,
The ravening eagle with devouring maw,
Shall deeply trench thy quivering flesh and come,
Day after day, an uninvited guest,
To feast upon thy ulcerated heart.
Of this thy agony expect no end
Until some god appears to take on him
Thy load of suffering, and for thee descend
To the dark depths of the dread under-world.
Advise thee then, and deem not that my words
Are feigned, for I in bitter earnest speak.
The lips of the Almighty cannot lie;
Each word they utter surely is fulfilled.
Use then thy forecast and be circumspect,
Nor o'er good counsel let self-will prevail.

CHORUS.

As seems to us, Hermes has spoken well,
In that he redes thee put away self-will,
And take far-sighted prudence to thy heart.
Give ear; for one so wise to err were shame.

PROMETHEUS.

Well known beforehand was to me
The purport of this embassy.
His foe am I, he is my foe,
And I his worst can undergo.
Then let his forked lightnings flash,
Heaven with his pealing thunder crash:
Let him the wild winds loose and make
Earth to her deep foundation shake;
Bid the swoll'n waves, by tempest driven,
Mount up and drench the stars of heaven;
And let my helpless form be hurled
Headlong to the dark under-world
Midst raging wreck of earth and sky.--
There ends his power, I cannot die.
HERMES.

Madness it is inspires thy thought.
Thy words are words of one distraught.
What here is wanting that can be
Sure token of insanity?
But now, ye ocean nymphs whose eyes
Weep for yon sinner's agonies,
Go hence, the heavens begin to lower,
Go hence, or with its awful stour
The thunder will your souls o'erpower.

CHORUS.

Go hence; good Hermes, change thy rede
And I will to thy words give heed.
But ne'er to me such counsel name
As e'en to think upon were shame,
Whate'er Prometheus may betide,
Be mine to suffer at his side.
Of all foul things abhorred by me
The most abhorred is perfidy.

HERMES.

Lay then to heart what now I say,
And think not in destruction's day
On fortune's spite the blame to throw,
Or say that Zeus has wrought your woe.
When thou hast rushed into the net
Of doom for fate by folly set,
Thou wilt thy just reward have met.

PROMETHEUS.

Now the dread hour has come: earth reels,
Through heaven the crashing thunder peals,
Forked lightnings blaze about the sky,
The sand in clouds is whirled on high;
From east, from west, from south, from north,
The winds in mad career rush forth,
And elemental battle join;
The welkin mingles with the brine;
Upon me comes in flood and fire
The blast of the Almighty's ire.
Look, holy mother, on this sight;
Look on it, Aether, source of light,
See justice overborne by might.

THE PERSIANS

Xerxes has led the hosts of Asia on the fatal expedition against
Hellas. His mother, Atossa, remaining at Susa, has a fatal dream,
which she recounts to the chorus of aged Persians.

       *       *       *       *       *

_ATOSSA'S DREAM_.

LINES 178-216.

ATOSSA.

By dreams I have been haunted every night,
Since with his armament my son went forth
To smite the land of the Ionians.
Yet never dream has come so startling clear
As last night's vision; let me tell it thee:--
Methought two women, beauteously attired,
The robes of one in Persian fashion wrought.
Those of her mate in Dorian, met my view.
In stature they surpassed all womankind;
Peerless their forms; sisters they were in blood.
The heritage and dwelling-place of one
Was Hellas, of the other Asia.
Between these two methought a strife arose,
Which when my son perceived, he checked their wrath
And calmed them, and beneath his chariot's yoke
He led them both, and o'er their necks the rein
He stretched. Then of her trappings one seemed proud
And to the bit her mouth obedient lent.
But her companion, like a restive steed,
The harness broke, and, heeding not the bit,
O'erthrew the car and snapped the yoke in twain.
My son falls, and his sire Darius comes
To aid and comfort him, whom when he sees,
Xerxes his garments rends in sign of woe.
Such was my dream. When morning came I rose,
And first the night's pollution purged away
With purifying waters, then I sought
The altar, with my sacrificial train
To lay the gift, which turns the wrath divine,
Of honeyed meal before the powers who save.
Behold an eagle flying in affright
To Phoebus' shrine; fear struck me mute, my friends.
Then lo! a falcon on the eagle swoops,
Assails him with his wings and tears his head
With angry talons, while the mightier bird
Cowers unresisting. Awful 'twas to see,
Awful it is for you to hear. My son,
If well he fares, will boundless glory win,
If ill--yet he no reckoning owes the state;
Let him but live and he is master here.

       *       *       *       *       *

_SALAMIS_.

The battle narrated by a Persian coming from the scene.

LINES 251-473.

MESSENGER.

Alas! ye cities all of Asia,
Alas! thou Persia, treasure-house of wealth,
How at one stroke has your prosperity
Been overthrown and Persia's glory lost!
Ill-luck has he that evil tidings brings,
Yet needs must I my tale of woe unfold.
Persians, our host has perished utterly.

       *       *       *       *       *       *       *

ATOSSA.

O'erwhelming sorrow has long held me mute.
Disaster such as this transcends all thought,
Bars all enquiry, chokes all utterance.
And yet we mortals must misfortune bear
When heaven ordains. Then, though thy heart be
wrung,
Calm thee and tell us all, that we may know
Who of our warriors lives, whom we must mourn
Among our chiefs, as having by his death
Left void the station of his high command.

MESSENGER.

Xerxes himself lives and beholds the sun.

ATOSSA.

Thy word is sunshine to my sorrowing house;
A cheerful day after a dismal night.

MESSENGER.

Artembares, that led ten thousand horse,
Lies slain upon the rough Silenian shore;
And Dadaces, that led a thousand more,
Pierced by a spear plunged headlong from his barque;
And Tenagon, Bactria's true son and pride,
Lies on the wave-washed beach of Ajax' Isle.
Lileus, Arsames, Argestes too,
Round the dove-haunted island drifting, struck
Its girdling rocks on fell disaster's day.
Matallus, that from Chrysa came, has fallen,
He that dark horsemen thrice ten thousand led;
The flowing beard that graced his cheek in gore
Steeped unto crimson turned its russet hue.
Arabian Magos, Bactrian Artames,
Die in a strange land, never to return;
And Tharybis, of five times fifty sail
Commander, Lyrna's son, with his fair face
By foul mischance of war has been laid low.
While, bravest of the brave, Syennesis,
Cilicia's admiral, who to the foe
Most trouble gave, has met a glorious doom.

ATOSSA.

Alas! this overtops the height of woe;
For Persia naught remains but shame and wail.
But now take up thy story, let me hear
What was the number of the Hellenic fleet,
That thus it dared our Persian armament
In battle with encountering prows to brave.

MESSENGER.

Know that if numbers could have gained the day
Victory was ours, for the Hellenic fleet
Counted in all but thrice a hundred sail,
Of which were ten for swiftness set apart.
But with a thousand galleys Xerxes came--
His muster-roll I know--whereof the ships
For swiftness picked two hundred were and seven.
Think you herein ours was the weaker side?
Some deity against us turned the scale,
And brought confusion on our armament,
The powers of Heaven for Pallas' city fight.

ATOSSA.

Has Athens then escaped the avenger's hand?

MESSENGER.

Her walls are scatheless while her men remain.

ATOSSA.

Recount then how began the naval fight.

MESSENGER.

Lady, the origin of all our woes
Was the appearance of some evil power.
A man of Hellas from the Athenian fleet
Came forth unto thy son, King Xerxes, said
That, when the darkling shades of night came on,
His countrymen would flee, leaping aboard
Their ships, each as he might, to save their lives.
Which when King Xerxes heard, suspecting not
The Hellene's treachery nor the spite of heaven,
He gives this order to his admirals:--
As soon as daylight faded from the earth,
And darkness overspread the face of heaven,
In three divisions our main force to range,
Barring each outlet and each water-way,
And with the rest to circle Ajax' Isle;
All being warned that if the Hellenes found
A part unguarded and escaped their doom,
Each with his head should pay the penalty.
This fiat he with heart uplift sent forth,
As little knowing what the gods ordained.
Obedient to the word, our seamen all
Prepared their evening meal, then every man
In order to the rowlock lashed his oar.
Soon as the light of evening died away
And night came on, each man who plied the oar
Went to his ship with all the men-at-arms,
And the word passed along the lines of war.
Then they put forth, each in his place assigned,
And through the live-long night the captains kept
Our weary seamen toiling at the oar.
So passed the hours of darkness, yet the fleet
Of Hellas showed no sign of stealthy flight.
But when the white steeds of returning day
Suffused the land and sea with orient light,
From the Hellenic fleet the hymn of war
Pealed forth in unison, and echo loud
Rang out in answer from the rocky isle.
Amazement on the host of Asia fell
And consternation, for no thought of flight
Was in that solemn chant, but courage high,
Desire of battle, hope of victory.
Then did the trumpet, thrilling, fire all hearts.
The word was given, and with concordant sweep
Their dashing oars at once upturned the brine,
And soon their whole armada was in sight.
The right wing first came forth in fair array,
The whole fleet followed and the shout was raised
Through all the lines, "On, sons of Hellas, on;
On, for the freedom of your fatherland,
Your wives, your children, your forefathers' graves,
The temples of your gods; all are at stake."
In answer rang on our side, loud and wide,
The Persian war-cry. Time to lose was none.
At once, encountering with their brazen beaks
The squadrons met. A ship of Hellas first
Charged a Phoenician galley and stove in
Her stern-works; general then the onset grew.
At first the prowess of our Persian host
Made head, but, crowded in the narrow strait,
Our galleys, powerless mutual aid to lend,
Dashed on their consorts with their brazen beaks,
And swept each other's banks of oars away.
Meanwhile the watchful foe, surrounding them,
Charged on the rout; ship after ship went down
Before him, and the sea was lost to sight
Beneath the drifting wrecks and floating dead.
Then all resistance ended, and our ships
Plied one and all their oars in panic flight.
The foe, as 'twere a haul of tunny fish,
With splintered oars and fragments of the wreck
Assailed and slaughtered them; the waters rang
With mingled cries of death and victory,
Till night's dark veil descending closed the scene.
The sum of our disasters, though I spoke
For ten long days, I never could unfold.
Know in a word, so vast a multitude
Has never fallen in one disastrous day.

ATOSSA.

Alas! a huge wave of calamity
Has broken on our universal realm.

MESSENGER.

Thou art but half way through this tale of woe,
For a disaster on our army fell
Which twice outweighed all this that I have told.

ATOSSA.

Can fortune's spite what thou hast told surpass?
Go on, recount this new calamity
Which in thy estimation outweighs all.

MESSENGER.

The very flower of all our Persian host,
The trusted pillars of our monarchy,
Have met a piteous and a shameful end.

ATOSSA.

Ah! woe is me for this dire history.
Recount, then, how our noblest warriors fell.

MESSENGER.

An isle there is in face of Salamis,
Small and without a haven, on whose strand
Dance-loving Pan his measure often treads.
Thither the King despatched these chosen bands
That when from sinking ships crews swam ashore,
They of their foes might make an easy prey,
And their friends rescue from a watery grave,
Ill the event foreseeing. For when heaven
Gave the Hellenes victory on the sea,
At once their bodies they in armour sheathed,
Leaped from their galleys forth, and all the isle
With arms encircled. Outlet for escape
Our hopeless bands had none. A ceaseless storm
Of stones was rained upon them, and the shafts,
Whistling from many a bowstring, scattered death.
At last, combining in one charge, the foe
Fell on them, stabbed them, hacked them limb from limb,
Nor stayed the butchery till the last was slain.
Xerxes, when he such utter ruin saw
From the high throne where, on an eminence
Hard by the sea, he overlooked the scene,
Sent forth a piercing cry and rent his clothes;
Then gave his troops the order to retreat
And headlong took to flight. Now thou dost know
The harvest and the aftermath of woe.

THE SEVEN AGAINST THEBES.

The unnatural brothers, Eteocles and Polynices, are competitors for
the lordship of Thebes. Eteocles is in possession. Polynices, having
married the daughter of Adrastus, King of Argos, leads an army, raised
by the help of his father-in-law, against Thebes.

In this army there are seven champions. The Argive army is drawn out
in array against the city in seven divisions, each division facing one
of the seven gates of Thebes, and with a champion at its head. The
champions are described to Eteocles by a Theban, who has been sent to
watch the movements of the enemy. Under the name of Amphiaraus lurks a
description of Aristides "the just," the head of the conservative
party to which Aeschylus belonged, whose conscientiousness and
moderation are obliquely contrasted with the revolutionary violence
of the ultra-democratic party headed by Themistocles. The chorus
consists of Theban maidens.

       *       *       *       *       *

_THE CHAMPIONS._

LINES 370-673.

MESSENGER.

The order of our foemen you shall hear,
And at which gate each champion has his post.
Tydeus stands ready at the Proetian gate,
Fuming, for still the seer forbids to ford
Ismenus, since the omens are not fair.
Thereat the chieftain, mad with warlike rage
As is a snake with heat at noonday, raves;
And on the prudent seer Oeclides heaps
Taunts of faint-heartedness and craven fear.
While thus he storms, wild on his helmet waves,
The shaggy crest threefold, and on his shield
The brazen bells ring out a fearful note.
Upon that shield a proud device he wears,
A firmament all luminous with stars,
While in the centre shines the moon full-orbed,
Empress of constellations, eye of night.
Thus in his boastful panoply he stalks
Along the river panting for the fray,
As a proud charger at the trumpet sound
Frets, paws the earth, and flecks his bit with foam.
Think whom thou hast to cope with this dread chief,
Who of that gate unbarred shall warder be.

ETEOCLES.

My spirit quails at no proud panoply.
Escutcheons wound not, nor will waving crests
Or clashing bells bite without thrust of spear.
This night of which thou tellest on his shield,
Albeit it blaze with all the stars of heaven,
May to the bearer's self prove ominous;
For if death's night should fall upon his eyes
His boastfulness will turn to prophecy,
And his device will have foreshown his doom.
To cope with Tydeus and that post to guard,
I send the gallant son of Astacus,
Whose noble blood is loyal to the rule
Of honour and abhors vainglorious words,
Whose chivalry fears nothing but reproach,
Sprung from that remnant of the Earth-born race,
Which the sword spared, a true son of the soil,
Melanippus. Ares' hand the die will cast,
But nature sends our soldier to the field
To drive the invader from his mother-land.

CHORUS.

Heaven shield our country's champion with its might,
Him who will combat for the right,
And guard our warriors all from perils of the fight.

MESSENGER.

Good fortune on thy chosen warder wait.
Before the Electran gate stands Capaneus,
Whose giant frame o'ertops e'en Tydeus' self.
His vaunts are more than mortal, and he hurls
Against our towers threats which may heaven forfend.
Be it the will of heaven or not, he vows
That he will storm this town, nor Zeus himself
With red right hand shall scare him from his prey.
Of lightnings or of thunderbolts he recks
No more than of the rays of noonday sun.
For his device he bears a naked man
With burning torch in hand, whose legend says
In golden letters, "I will fire this town."
Bethink thee whom thou hast this chief to mate,
Who without quailing will his vaunts withstand.

ETEOCLES.

Why, here we have gain added unto gain.
When pride and folly in the heart abide,
The tongue fails not their presence to betray.
Capaneus threatens what his hand would do,
Scorning the gods, and with unchastened lips,
Madly exulting, vents against high heaven
And heaven's high king his swelling blasphemies.
Surely I trust that on his impious head
The lightning shall be launched more fiery far
Than are the rays of any noonday sun.
To meet him with his braggart menaces
Stout Polyphontus goes, a gallant soul,
Who well can hold the post, so Artemis
And all protecting gods his arm will aid.
Tell us whose lot is at another gate.

CHORUS.

Perish the man who would lay low our towers;
Smite him with lightning, kindly powers,
Ere he can storm our home and spoil our virgin bowers.

MESSENGER.

Hear, then, who has his post at the next gate.
Eteocles is his name, him the third lot,
Forth from the brazen helmet leaping, set
To lead his band against the Eastern gate.
There to and fro he wheels his fiery steeds,
That pant in their caparisons to charge
The portal, and with snorting nostrils proud
Make uncouth music through their mouth-pieces.
Nor lowly the device upon his shield:
A man-at-arms is on a ladder seen
Scaling the wall of a beleaguered town,
And underneath the vaunting legend dares
Ares himself to beat back the assault.
Against this champion you must bid go forth
One that can save our town from slavery.

ETEOCLES.

He goes--is gone, with victory on his helm;
A chief whose boasting is in deeds, not words,
Megareus, of earth-born lineage, Creon's son.
Him shall no snortings of impetuous steeds
Scare from the gate, but either with his blood
He will repay the earth that gave him life,
Or both the warriors and the town to boot
Bear off and with the spoils adorn his home.
Give us some more vainglory; stint not speech.

CHORUS.

Good luck with him that guards my city go,
Ill luck with the o'erweening foe.
High is their boast; may Zeus, the avenger, lay them low.

MESSENGER.

At the fourth gate, where stands Athene's fane
Of Onke hight, another chief appears,
Towering with giant bulk--Hippomedon.
Broad as a threshing-floor his buckler is,
And terror seized me as he whirled it round.
Nor was it any common craftsman's hand
That wrought the emblem which that buckler bears,
A Typhon vomiting with fiery mouth,
Black clouds of smoke, the wavering mate of fire.
And all around his hollow buckler's rim
A coil of twining snakes is riveted.
Loud is his battle-cry. By Ares fired
He like a Maenad storms and raves for fight.
Against this champion's onset guard thee well;
Already rout is threatened at the gate.

ETEOCLES.

The deity herself that has her fane
Hard by the gates, abhorring insolence,
Will ward this deadly serpent from her brood.
But as our man, valiant Hyperbius,
The son of Oenops, to the lists has gone,
Ready at need to brave the risks of war,
In form, in spirit, and in arms alike
Reproachless. Hermes well has matched the pair.
For as each champion is the other's foe,
So are the gods that on their shields they bear:
Hippomedon has Typhon breathing fire,
But on the buckler of Hyperbius
Is Zeus the unconquered, thunderbolt in hand;
And who e'er knew the arm of Zeus to fail?
Such are the patron deities of whom
The weaker are the foe's, the mightier ours.
So will it fare with those they patronise,
If Zeus o'er Typhon has the mastery;
For Zeus, the saviour, on Hyperbius' shield
Blazoned, will save his liegeman in the fight.

CHORUS.

The foe of Zeus bearing that form of hate,
By gods and mortals reprobate,
The hell fiend soon, I trust, shall fall before the gate.

MESSENGER.

So may it be, now to the fifth I come
Whose station is at the Borraean gates,
Hard by the tomb that holds Amphion's dust.
This champion swears by what he higher deems
Than god and dearer than his eyes, his spear,
That he will Cadmus' city storm and sack
In heaven's despite. So vows the wood nymph's son,
That fair-faced stripling, scarcely yet a man,
For on his cheek still blooms the down of youth.
Marshal his mood and fierce his countenance,
And all unlike the maiden name he bears.
Nor does he lack his share of boastfulness,
For on the shield that with its brazen round
His body fenced, he bore our city's shame,
The rav'ning Sphynx, in burnished effigy
Empaled, and grasping in her felon claws
The limbs of a Cadmean citizen;
Which on the bearer drew a shower of darts.
Battle to huckster is not his intent,
Nor to have marched so far and marched in vain.
His name Parthenopaeus, Arcady
His home, Argos his nurse, whom to requite
He threatens that from which heaven save our towers.

ETEOCLES.

Yes, only let their thoughts be paid them home
[Footnote: Two lines in this speech appear to have been lost.]
By the just gods, they with their impious vaunts
Will be consumed and perish utterly.
To cope with thy Arcadian goes a man
Modest in speech but nowise slack in deed,
Actor, his brother of whom last I spake,
Who will not let a tongue without an arm
Within our gates rave to our overthrow,
Nor entrance give the foe, who on his shield
To flout us bears the hated effigy.
His Sphynx, midst rattling darts, will hardly thank
Him that advanced her to our battlements.--
Heaven grant that as I say the event may be.

CHORUS.

Thy tidings pierce my fluttering breast, and fright
Makes all my tresses rise upright
At that fell foeman's vaunt; may heaven confound his spite.

MESSENGER.

Five were accursed; one righteous man succeeds
The seer Amphiaraus, good and brave.
His post is at the Homoloian gate.
Here he reproaches heaps on Tydeus' head,
Calling him murderer and the public bane,
Leader of Argos in all evil ways,
The Furies' pursuivant, henchman of death,
That has Adrastus to his ruin trained.
Thy brother too, stained by his father's fate,
Great Polynices, with accusing face
Turned heavenward, he upbraids and thus he speaks:
"Certes a deed it is to please the gods,
Fair to recount and glorious to hand down,
Thus thy own city to lay low and raze
Her temples with an alien soldiery.
What stream can wash away a mother's curse?
How shall thy country, captive to a foe
By thee set on, requite thee with her love?
For me, this hostile land must be my tomb
And be enriched with my prophetic bones.
Forward! I look for no inglorious grave."
Thus spake the seer as he before him threw
His glittering shield. On it was no device.
Foremost to be, not seem, was still his aim.
His soul is as a plough-land deep and rich,
From which a harvest of good counsels grows.
Against him send some worthy opposite.
He most is to be feared who fears the gods.

ETEOCLES.

Woe worth the day that links the righteous man
To the dark fortunes of iniquity.
In all the world is nothing so malign,
Of fruit so poisonous, as an evil friend.
One day shall ye behold the pious man,
Going on ship-board with an impious crew,
Sink amid sinners reprobate of heaven.
Another day shall ye behold the just,
In an outlawed and godless commonwealth,
Snared like their fellows in the net of doom
And struck by the avenging rod of heaven.
And so this seer, this son of Oecleës,
A wise, just, blameless, and god-fearing man,
A famous prophet, to an impious host
Against his better judgment misallied
And drawn to march with them whose bourne is hell,
With them must perish; such the stern decree.
Hardly, I think, he will assault the gate;
Not that his heart will faint or arm will fail,
But that he knows he on this field must die,
Unless Apollo's oracle prove false,
Which if he tells not, prudence seals his lips.
Yet shall our champion be stout Lasthenes,
A churlish gate-ward to intruders he,
An aged head upon a youthful frame.
Quick is his eye and nimble is his hand
From the shield's cover to dart forth the spear.
But who shall win the gods alone can tell.

CHORUS.

O hear our righteous prayer, ye heavenly powers,
The ruin be the foe's, not ours,
And may the thunder smite him who would storm our towers.

MESSENGER.

The chief whose post is at the seventh gate
Is thine own brother; hear his direful prayers,
His imprecations on our commonwealth.
He prays that he may mount our battlements,
Be there proclaimed our king, shout victory,
Meet thee, and slay thee, and insult thee slain,
Or, living, drive thee forth a banished man,
Disgracing thee as thou hast him disgraced.
With such fell words and adjurations dire
Of his paternal gods to hear his prayer,
Strong Polynices makes the field resound.
A shield he bears, fair-shaped and newly-wrought,
Whereon a twofold emblem is empaled:
A lady with a stately mien leads on
The golden likeness of a man-at-arms,
The legend says that Justice is her name
And she is bringing back a banished man
To claim his native city and his home.
[Footnote: Four lines, probably spurious, if not interpolated, are
here omitted.]

ETEOCLES.

O madness of the wicked, heaven-abhorred!
O hapless race of Oedipus my sire,
Alas! a father's curse is here fulfilled.
But now away with tears, away with wails,
Lest a worse cause of lamentation come.
For Polynices, all too truly named,
[Footnote: The last part of the name means _strife_.]
Soon shall he know what his device portends,
And whether golden letters on his shield,
Vaunt as they may, shall bring the boaster home.
Perchance if Justice, virgin child of Zeus,
Were in his thoughts and deeds, so it might be;
But neither when he issued from the womb,
Nor in his childhood's days, nor in his youth,
Nor since the beard has gathered on his chin,
Has Justice e'er vouchsafed a word to him.
Nor now, when on his native soil he treads
In enmity, is Justice at his side.
Nor could the deity deserve her name
If she could be a miscreant's paramour.
Herein I put my trust, and will myself
Accept this combat; better right has none;
Chieftains alike we meet, brethren we are
And deadly enemies. My armour, ho!

AGAMEMNON.

The only complete specimen of a trilogy extant is the "Oresteia" of
Aeschylus, comprising the "Agamemnon," the "Choephoroe" (Mourners),
and the "Eumenides" (Furies). In this series are presented the murder
of Agamemnon on his return from the conquest of Troy, by his queen,
Clytemnestra, and her paramour, Aegisthus; the slaying of Clytemnestra
and Aegisthus by the avenger of blood, Orestes, son of Agamemnon and
Clytemnestra, at the bidding of Apollo; the pursuit of Orestes as a
matricide by the Furies; and his final acquittal and restoration by
the favour of Apollo and Athene. The trilogy is full of political
sentiment and allusion. The last piece, "Eumenides," has a distinct
political purpose. In the murder of Agamemnon in his home, after his
return from his victory over the Asiatic enemies of Hellas, by
Aegisthus and Clytemnestra, the audience could hardly fail to see a
parallel to the persecution of Cimon, the hero of the conservative
party to which Aeschylus belonged, after his victories over the
Persians, by the leaders of the democratic party, Pericles and
Ephialtes.

       *       *       *       *       *

_THE FALL OF TROY ANNOUNCED AT MYCENAE, WHERE AGAMEMNON'S PALACE IS,
BY BEACON FIRES._

LINES 1-39.

THE WATCHMAN.

Grant me, oh gods, deliverance from this toil,
This year-long watch, which, couched upon the roof
Of the Atridae, dog-like I have kept,
Scanning the nightly gatherings of the stars,
Those radiant potentates, that throned on high,
Lead on the changing seasons for mankind.
And now I still am looking for the sign,
The beacon light which is to flash from Troy
The tidings of the city's fall, for so
Ordains the will of our man-hearted queen.
Broken my rest, my couch is drenched with dew,
And by no pleasant dream is visited.
In place of slumber fear waits on me there,
So that my eyes can never close in sleep;
And if to sing or whistle I essay,
In hope to charm away my drowsiness,
Straightway I fall to weeping for this house,
That into evil hands of late has fallen.
Would but the light, that happy tidings bears,
Shine through the dark to end our sufferings.
_(Beacon light appears,)_
Offspring of night, all hail! A glorious day
Thou dost to Argos bring, with many a dance
And song in honour of this victory.
Joy! joy!
I go to call on Agamemnon's queen
To leave her couch, and forthwith in her halls
Bid the glad voice of jubilation rise
To greet this beacon fire. If true it be
That Troy is taken, as the light proclaims,
My watch the highest throw of fortune's dice
Has cast, and with my lords all must be well.
No more I say, a heavy curb is laid
Upon my lips; these walls, if they had voice,
Would tell their secret; as for me, I speak
To those who know, to others I am mute.

       *       *       *       *       *

_THE SACRIFICE OF IPHIGENIA._

The chorus recounts the sacrifice of Iphigenia, one of the train of
horrors connected with the doom of the house of Atreus.

LINES 177-240.

CHORUS.

Wind-bound and suffering dearth, the Achaean fleet
O'er against Calchis lay.
On Aulis' tide-washed shore,
While from the Strymon gales,
Bearing delay and famine on their wing,
Bane of the mariner,
Wasting both hull and rope,
Were wearing out the flower of Argive youth.
Then did the seer proclaim
For that unwelcome wind
A new and cruel cure
In name of Artemis.
Which, hearing, the Atridae with their staves
Smote on the ground and wept.

Then spake the elder King:
"To disobey were dire,
Yet dire it is to slay
My child, the pride and beauty of my home,
And at the altar stain
A father's hand with blood of virgin sacrifice.
Which way is not despair?
How can I prove disloyal to the host,
And this alliance lose?
If for this sacrifice of virgin life,
The wind to lay, heaven calls
So sternly, I obey."

Fate's yoke when he had donned,
Over his spirit came
A dark, unholy change;
Thenceforth he doffed all pity and remorse.
From the heart of man delusion strong,
Parent of evil, casts out virtuous fear.
Unmoved, he slew his child a war to aid
Waged for a woman's wrong
Upon the fleet's behalf.
Her prayers, her calling on her father's name,
Her virgin youth,
Those royal warriors held of no account.
Prayer said, her father bade the ministers
Lift her that, fainting, in her robes sank down
Upon the altar, as it were a kid,
And guard upon her beauteous lips to set
Of forceful silence, lest
A curse might issue from them on the house.
Letting her saffron veil fall on the ground,
She smote each minister of sacrifice
With piteous glances, mute
As is a picture, and in vain essayed
To speak. She many a time
In hospitable hall
Had sung, and with her innocent, chaste voice
Wished to her sire health and prosperity.
What then ensued I saw not nor recount.
The seer's behest was done.

       *       *       *       *       *

_THE MEETING OF AGAMEMNON AND CLYTAEMNESTRA._

LINES 828-947.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Friends, aged citizens of Argos here,
I will not shrink from speaking of my love,
Since years wear off a woman's bashfulness.
Myself alone can tell the life I led
While my lord lay before the walls of Troy.
Sad, passing sad, the lot of woman left
Lorn of her consort in the lonely home,
And hearing day by day reports of ill;
Every new comer bringing evil news,
And the last worse than him that went before.
Had my lord met all wounds that rumour gave,
His body had been but one net of wounds;
Had he, as oft as rumour blew him, died,
He must have been a three-lived Geryon,
And thrice put on a shroud of funeral earth
Above him, reckoning not the earth below,
Thrice dead, and in three several graves interred.
Driven to despair mid all these dark reports,
By hanging oft I sought to end my days,
And was by others saved and forced to live.
Hence is it that thy child, pledge of our love,
Orestes, is not here to greet his sire,
As had been meet. Let not that trouble thee.
Strophios the Phocian took the boy in trust,
Thine ancient friend in arms, forewarning us
That troublous times might come, should aught befall
My lord, and the unbridled multitude
O'erthrow the senate, as mankind are wont
To trample on the fallen. 'Tis truth I tell.
The very fountains of my tears are dry,
Sorrow no drop hath left, my eyes are sore
Through my night watchings for the beacon light
That should bring news of thee, but brought it not.
A gnat's light whirring broke the dream of thee
That in an hour compressed an age of woe.
Now all this past, from carking sorrow free,
I hail my lord, the watchdog of our fold,
The ship's main stay, the pillar that upbears
A lofty roof, dear as an only child,
Welcome as land to seamen tossed at sea,
As cheerful day after the stormiest night,
As well-spring to the thirsty traveller.
Sweet after careful stress is careless ease.
Such is my salutation to my lord,
Which should not draw on us the evil eye.
Enough we've borne already. Now, beloved,
Step from thy chariot; yet not on the earth
Shall Ilium's glorious conqueror set his foot.
Haste, haste, ye handmaidens, to whom the charge
Was given to spread the ground with tapestry,
And make a purple pathway for my lord,
Whom justice brings to his unlooked for home.
For aught beside, care, lovingly awake,
The gods so willing, shall good order take.

AGAMEMNON.

Daughter of Leda, guardian of my home,
Thy speech is as my absence, long drawn out.
Well measured praise from other lips must come;
I pray thee stint thy woman's blandishments,
Nor, like some proud barbarian's minion vile,
Crawl to my feet with abject flatteries.
I would not have thy draperies on me draw
The evil eye; to gods such state belongs,
Not mortals; for a mortal thus to tread
On broidery were to tempt the wrath of heaven.
Pay to me honours human, not divine.
Foot-cloths or broidery need I none to tell
What fame will voice aloud. Discretion still
Is the best gift of heaven, and he alone
Is truly blest who prospers to the end.
Let but this fortune hold, I've naught to fear.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Yet herein yield to her that loves thee well.

AGAMEMNON.

Know that I will not swerve from my resolve.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Is it some vow, vowed in an hour of fear?

AGAMEMNON.

I well knew my own mind when thus I spoke.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Had Priam conquered, what would he have done?

AGAMEMNON.

He, certes, would have trod on tapestry.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Be not affrighted by the tongues of men.

AGAMEMNON.

Yet is the people's voice a mighty power.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Who shrinks from envy dares not to be great.

AGAMEMNON

To love contention is not womanly.

CLYTAEMNESTRA

Yet the victorious can afford defeat.

AGAMEMNON.

Dost thou, too, prize defeat as victory?

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Defeat or victory, yield thee at my prayer.

AGAMEMNON.

So be it, an thou wilt. Let some one loose
My sandals, lest if, proudly shod with these,
I tread a path so costly, I may draw,
Presumptuous, from above the evil eye.
Great shame it were our substance thus to waste,
Trampling on costly web with sandaled feet.
Of that enough. Now take this stranger in
(_Pointing to Cassandra._)
In kindly wise; who gently use their power
Shall merit mercy in the eye of heaven.
Misfortune, not misdoing, makes the slave.
This damsel, choicest flower of all we won,
The army's gift to me, have I brought home.
Now let me, since my will has bent to thine,
Walk over purple to my royal hall.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

There is a sea, there is a boundless sea,
And in its depths is gendered purple dye
Of costliest kind for vestments numberless.
Of this, the gods be thanked, our palace holds
Abundance, want or stint is there unknown.
Purple enow would I have gladly given
To trample in the mire, had oracles
Enjoined to pay such ransom for thy life.
With thee unto the leafless trunk has come
A leafy shelter from the dog-star's heat;
Since thy return to thy beloved hearth,
Our wintry frost shall yield to summer's sun,
And coolness, in the heat that turns the grape,
Reign in the house whose head is there once more.
Zeus, father in whose hands all issues are,
Give issue to thy counsels and my prayer.

       *       *       *       *       *

_CASSANDRA'S PROPHECY._

LINES 1149-1391.

CASSANDRA.

Now shall my oracle no more peer forth
As from her virgin veil a bashful bride;
It shall grow clearer as the sky is cleared
By the brisk wind, and like a sunlit wave
Shall mount the billows of calamity.
No more in riddles will I prophesy.
Follow and bear me witness as I hunt,
Upon the trail of immemorial crime.
Within this house a company abides,
Singing in unison no mirthful strain,
A band of revellers that, to fire its heart,
Hath quaffed, not wine, but blood of murdered men,
The Furies that shall never quit these gates.
A hymn they sing, within the haunted hall,
Of the primeval curse, and tell in turn
What loathly vengeance paid a brother's shame.
[Footnote: Alluding to the banquet of Thyestes.]
Say, does my arrow miss or hit the mark?
Am I a begging, babbling soothsayer?
Bear witness on thy oath how well I know,
Untaught, the sinful record of this house.

CHORUS.

What virtue hath an oath's solemnity
To make wrong right? Amazement fills my soul
To hear a stranger from beyond the sea
Thus hit the truth as though thou hadst been here.

CASSANDRA.

Apollo bade me be a prophetess.

CHORUS.

Was the god smitten with a mortal love?

CASSANDRA.

Shame ever to this hour hath sealed my lips.

CHORUS.

Prosperity is always delicate.

CASSANDRA.

A wooer he who well could touch my heart.

CHORUS.

Were children then begotten of your love?

CASSANDRA.

I broke my plighted troth to Loxias.

CHORUS.

When thou already hadst received the gift?

CASSANDRA.

Yea; I foretold my country all its woes.

CHORUS.

How was it Loxias failed to punish thee?

CASSANDRA.

My punishment was ne'er to be believed.

CHORUS.

To us what thou foreshow'st seems all too true.

CASSANDRA.

Once more prophetic pangs come over me.
Mark ye those children on the palace there,
In aspect like the spectral shapes of dreams?
Meseems they by a kinsman's sword were slain.
See, in their hands they bear a loathsome feast,
The piteous flesh of which their father ate.
Vengeance is coming, yonder in the lair
A lion lurks, a coward skulking beast,
Plotting against my late returned lord.
My lord, I say, for slavery is my doom.
The army's chief that o'erthrew Ilium
Knows little what yon shameless paramour,
After her long and so fair-seeming speech,
Is bent to do in an accursed hour,
Like a fell fiend lurking in ambush there.
O crime of crimes, a woman slays her mate,--
What can I call her? The most poisonous snake;
A Scylla, with her lair among the rocks,
Lying in wait for luckless mariners;
Death's dam, against her kin implacably
Breathing her venom. What a shout she raised
Of exultation, as for battle won!
She feigns rejoicing at her lord's return.
Believe or disbelieve me; naught I care
That which must come, must come. Thou soon shalt see
And rue the truth of this my prophecy.

CHORUS.

Thyestes, feasted with his children's flesh,
Shuddering, I understood, and am appalled
At hearing all so painted to the life.
But for the rest, I wander from the course.

CASSANDRA.

I say thou shalt see Agamemnon die.

CHORUS.

Hush, hapless maid, speak no ill-omened words.

CASSANDRA.

Place for well-omened words this work has none.

CHORUS.

Not if it come to pass, which heaven forfend.

CASSANDRA.

While thou art praying they prepare to smite.

CHORUS.

Where is the man to do so foul a deed?

CASSANDRA.

Ill hast thou understood my prophecy.

CHORUS.

By whom and how thy words have not revealed.

CASSANDRA.

And yet I know too well thy country's tongue.

CHORUS.

So do our prophets, yet their words are dark.

CASSANDRA.

Ah, me! how fierce the fire, it fills my veins.
Spare me, Apollo, god of Lycia, spare.
Yon lioness that, since her royal mate
Departed, with a caitiff wolf has lain,
Will slay me, and as one that poison brews
Will in the caldron cast her jealousy,
And while she whets the knife to slay her lord
Say she takes vengeance for his lawless love.
Why do I bear on me these mockeries,
This prophet's wand, this fillet round my neck?
Go, lead the way to death; I follow soon;
Go, and adorn some other curse than me.
Behold Apollo's self is stripping me
Of my prophetic garb, and in that garb
Already has he, with unpitying eyes,
Seen me and mine the foeman's laughing-stock.
I had to bear the name of tramp, be spurned
As a poor famished beggar on the street.
And now the prophet to unprophet me
Has led me into this decoy of death,
Where for the altars of my sire, the block
Of butchery soon must my hot life-blood drink.
Yet shall we not fall unavenged of heaven.
Another minister of justice comes,
His sire's avenger on the womb that bore him.
A wanderer banished from his native land,
He shall return to put the coping stone
On murder's pile; for so the gods have sworn,
And his fall'n father's hand shall beckon him.
But why should I, forlorn, bemoan my fate,
Since I have seen Ilium, my fatherland,
Faring as it has fared, and they who dwelt
Therein so worsted in the court of heaven?
Be it accomplished, to my doom I go.
Hear me, ye gates of death, sure be the stroke,
That easily with no long agony
My blood may flow, and the last sleep be mine.

CHORUS.

O maiden, thrice unhappy, yet inspired,
If truly, as thy long address imports,
Thou dost foresee thy fate, what bids thee go
As goes a doomed steer to the sacrifice?

CASSANDRA.

Friends, there is no escaping by delay.

CHORUS.

And yet of times to die the last is best.

CASSANDRA.

The day has come; naught shall I gain by flight.

CHORUS.

Great-hearted maiden, strong is thy resolve.

CASSANDRA.

Not on the happy is such praise bestowed.

CHORUS.

Yet to die gloriously is happiness.

CASSANDRA.

Father, alas, for thee and thy brave sons!

CHORUS.

How now? What fearful object meets thine eye?

CASSANDRA.

Ah, me! Ah, me!

CHORUS.

What means thy shriek? What phantom dost thou see?

CASSANDRA.

There is a smell of murder from that house.

CHORUS.

Nay, 'tis the smell of household sacrifice.

CASSANDRA.

It is the odour of a charnel-house.

CHORUS.

No savour that of Syrian frankincense.

CASSANDRA.

I go my own and Agamemnon's dirge
To chant within the halls. Good-bye to life.
Strangers, alas!
Not like a foolish bird scared at the bush
Am I. Bear witness, when I am no more,
When for my woman's blood a woman dies,
And for a man ill-wed a man is slain;
With my last breath I crave of ye this boon.

CHORUS.

I weep to see thee going to thy doom.

CASSANDRA.

Once more I fain would speak; not to renew
Weak wailings, but to call on yonder sun
And bid him bring the avenger to requite
The cruel murderess of a poor weak slave.
Alas! for man, if in his prosperous hour,
Fate faintly limns the shape of happiness,
Soon comes the sponge and wipes the picture out;
And sad is the beginning, worse the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

_CASSANDRA'S PROPHECY FULFILLED_.

The doorway of the palace opens and reveals Clytaemnestra within the
portal standing over the corpse of Agamemnon. She has slain him with
an axe in the bath, having entangled him in a sleeveless robe.

LINES 1343-1554.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Much did I say before to serve the time
Which now to contradict I think no shame.
How else could hate encircle with its toils
The enemy that was a seeming friend,
So that the prey might not o'erleap the net?
Old is the quarrel; over my revenge
Long have I brooded, now it comes at last.
Here where I stand the deed of death was done,
And I so managed, I deny it not,
That he could neither fly nor fend the blow.
As he had been a fish I round him cast,
Like a close net, a rich but deadly robe.
Twice did I strike, twice did he groan, then sank;
And as he lay another stroke I gave,
To make the lucky number, and commend
His soul to Hades, guardian of the dead.
So did his angry spirit pass away,
While over me he threw a jet of blood,
Which gladdened me as doth the rain from heaven
The corn-field in the swelling of the ear.
Elders of Argos, hear! This have I done,
And in this glory, take it as ye will.
To pour a glad libation on the corpse,
Did piety permit, were more than just.
He mixed a bowl of curses for the house,
And what he mixed himself came home to drink.

CHORUS.

Amazement fills us at thy hardihood
That thus dost triumph o'er thy murdered lord.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Ye think to deal with a weak woman's heart,
But I, with soul unquailing, to your face
Tell you, approve or damn me as you may,
Here Agamemnon lies, my lord that was,
A corpse that is, the work of this right hand,
Its righteous work. There is no more to say.

CHORUS.

Lady, what baleful herb
Of earth or potion dire
Drawn from the flowing ocean, hadst thou drunk,
That on thee thou hast brought the public curse?
Thou hast cast off, cut off;
Thyself will be cast out,
A thing of loathing to our citizens.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Yea, thy award to me is banishment,
And execration, and the people's curse.
But no such measure didst thou mete this man
When recklessly, as it had been a beast,
While in his pastures sheep were numberless,
He sacrificed his child, the dearest child
That I had borne, to charm the Thracian gales.
Him from the land to drive for his foul deed
Thy justice moved thee not. But now I come
Before the bar, the judge is merciless.
I warn thee that thy threats are launched at one
Who, if thou canst in equal combat win,
Will yield; but, should heaven otherwise ordain,
Thou may'st too late be put to wisdom's school.

CHORUS.

High, lady, is thy heart,
And haughty is thy speech;
Thy soul with murder is intoxicate;
Upon thy brow is the red stain of blood
Unexpiated. Yet
Wilt thou, of aid bereft,
As thou hast struck, feel the avenging blow.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Hear while once more my solemn oath I pledge.
By the accomplished vengeance of my child,
By those dread powers whose sacrifice lies there,
I look not to see fear within my halls,
While on the hearth Aegisthus lights the fire
And to his mate is true as he is now.
With him for shield I shall not be afraid.
Low lies the man that did betray my love,
That toy of each Chryseis in the camp;
And with him lies this captive soothsayer,
His faithful leman and his sea-mate too.
For what they did the pair have dearly paid.
One there ye see, the other like a swan,
When she had sung her dying melody,
Fell in her paramour's embrace and lent
Fresh relish to my feast of happiness.

CHORUS.

Would that a death, painless, not lingering,
Would on me bring the everlasting sleep,
Since my kind guard,
That for a woman's sake so much
Braved, by a woman's hand has met his end.
O Helen, thou for whom beneath Troy's wall
Myriads were doomed to die,
At last through thee the gout
Of blood which in this house
Was uneffaced, fresh murder has begot.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Pray not for death to come
In ire at this my deed,
With Helen be not wroth
Because her murderous face
Many a bold Danaan slew
And woe unmeasured brought.

CHORUS.

Fiend, that dost haunt the hall
Of the Tantalidae,
And in a woman showed
A man's strength to my bane,
See how upon the dead,
Perched like a raven dire,
She chants her impious strain.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Now speakest thou aright,
Calling upon the fiend
That raveneth this race.
From him proceeds that lust
Congenital of blood
That ever craves fresh gore.

CHORUS.

A demon dire and fell
Thou to this house
Would'st in dark strain assign.
Ah, me! All comes from Zeus,
Of all things source and cause,
Without whom naught befalls
Mankind. Of all this train
Of woes, what was there not by heaven decreed?
How shall I wail thee, king,
How vent my loyal grief?
In this fell spider's web thou liest low,
Expiring by a stroke
Accursed as no freeman ought to lie,
By treachery struck down
With its two-handed axe.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Charge not on me this deed.
Imagine not that I
Am Agamemnon's queen.
Like to the dead man's wife
The fiend that vengeance takes
For Atreus' ghastly feast
Here hath repaid the debt,
A man for infants slain.

CHORUS.

Oh, whither can I turn,
In vain my mind I task.
The house thus wrecked, despair lies every way.
I shudder at this pouring rain of blood,
No more by drops it falls.
Fate for some other murderous deed
On a new whetstone sharpens her knife's edge.
Would earth had swallowed me
Ere in the silver vessel of the bath
I saw my king laid low.
Who will his funeral rites
Perform? Wilt thou be able unabashed,
Having thy husband slain,
To wail for him, and to his injured shade
Requital for such wrong
By unloved service pay?

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Not unto thee belongs
This care. 'Twas we that slew,
And we will bury him.
Not from his house shall go
His mourning train.
By the swift-flowing stream
Of lamentation his loved child,
Iphigenia, shall her father meet,
Embrace and fondly kiss.

THE CHOEPHOROE

Electra, the daughter of Agamemnon, has been living beneath the hated
domination of Aegisthus and Clytemnestra, the murderer and murderess
of her father. Her brother Orestes, the avenger of blood and the hope
of her house, has been living in banishment, while she has been
looking and longing for his return. At length he returns with his
faithful comrade Pylades, and intimates his presence by placing a lock
of his hair as his offering on Agamemnon's tomb. Electra announces the
discovery to the Chorus of Trojan women, who bear her libation for her
to the tomb of her father, and from whom the play is named.

       *       *       *       *       *

_ORESTES DISCOVERS HIMSELF TO ELECTRA._

LINES 158-274.

ELECTRA.

My father's grave has drunk the holy wine;
Now lend your ears to the strange news I bring.

CHORUS.

Speak on, my heart thrills with expectancy.

ELECTRA.

I found this lock of hair upon the tomb.

CHORUS.

Who was it, man or maid, that laid it there?

ELECTRA.

This to divine were not so difficult.

CHORUS.

Old as I am on thy young lips I hang.

ELECTRA.

From what head could the lock be cut but mine?

CHORUS.

They that should offer mourning locks are foes.

ELECTRA.

This lock of hair is wondrous like in hue.

CHORUS.

Like to whose hair? 'Tis this I long to learn.

ELECTRA.

Like, passing like, to hers that speaks to thee.

CHORUS.

Think'st thou Orestes sent it secretly?

ELECTRA.

The lock in hue is like no hair but his.

CHORUS.

But how could he adventure to come here?

ELECTRA.

Perchance he sent the offering to his sire.

CHORUS.

This will not staunch the fountain of my woes,
If he is ne'er to set foot in our land.

ELECTRA.

Not less through me a tide of passion rolled,
And as it were an arrow pierced my breast,
While from my eyes coursed down my thirsty cheeks
The gushing tears, till sorrow's fount was dry,
As on this lock I looked. No citizen
Of ours could own it saving one alone;
Nor was it shred by her the murderess
That but usurps a mother's hallowed name,
To us, her children, so unmotherly.
Surely to say what I would fain believe,
That this fair offering from Orestes comes
Dearest of men, I dare not, yet I hope.
Oh, would it had a voice to speak to me,
And so to end distraction in my soul;
That I might cast it scornfully away,
If it were taken from a hated head.
If from a head I love, that it might pay
With me sad homage to my father's tomb.

CHORUS.

The heavenly powers on whom we call well know
With what a sea, like storm-tossed mariners,
We battle; yet, if destiny be kind,
From a small seed a mighty tree may spring.

ELECTRA.

Then, for a second sign, foot-prints I find
Like to my own in shape and measurement.
For there were two imprints, one of his own,
The other of a fellow-traveller's foot;
And those of his own foot, compared with mine,
In their whole shape exactly correspond.
I am all anguish and bewilderment.

ORESTES (_suddenly entering_).

Pray for whatever else thy soul desires,
And may a like fulfilment crown the prayer.

ELECTRA.

What prayer of mine now have the gods fulfilled?

ORESTES.

Whom thou didst yearn to see is now before thee.

ELECTRA.

Whom I did yearn to see? What was his name?

ORESTES.

Orestes, by thy craving lips pronounced.

ELECTRA.

In what respect, then, has my prayer been heard?

ORESTES.

The bearer of that name beloved am I.

ELECTRA.

Stranger, is this some trick thou playest on me?

ORESTES.

An 'twere, I should conspire against myself.

ELECTRA.

Sure thou art sporting with my misery.

ORESTES.

Sporting with thine were sporting with my own.

ELECTRA.

And is it to Orestes' self I speak?

ORESTES.

Orestes' self, whom seeing thou dost doubt
Thine eyesight, though a lock of hair or prints
Of feet that tallied with thine own could raise
My apparition in thy fluttering heart.
Apply the lock which tallies with thy hair
To this my head from which it was cut off.
Look on this robe, the work of thine own hand,
And trace the figures which thy shuttle wrought.
But calm thee, let not joy distract thy soul,
For near of kin we know is far from kind.

ELECTRA.

O hope and darling of my father's house,
Seed of redemption, watered with my tears,
Trust thy right arm; it shall win back thy home.
Thou art the fourfold object of my love:
Electra has no father left but thee;
No mother--hateful she who bears that name;
Thou art to me in my lost sister's place;
The brother thou that dost my name uphold;
Only let might and justice and the king
Of gods and men be with thee in the fight.

ORESTES.

Zeus, Zeus, look down on what is passing here,
Take pity on the eagle's brood, whose sire,
Trapped in the coils of a most deadly snake,
Was stung to death and left his orphan brood
A prey to hunger. For no strength have they
To bring the quarry home, as did their sire.
In me and my Electra here thou seest
Two eaglets of their sire alike bereft,
And outcasts both from what was once their home.

ELECTRA.

High honour did our father pay to thee,
Rich gifts he gave thy shrine; his offspring gone,
Who will be left to heap thy altars more?
Thy race of eagles lost, thou wilt have none
To be the herald of thy will to man.
This royal stock blasted, thou wilt have none
To tend thy shrine on days of sacrifice.
Watch o'er us, and the house that now seems fallen
Past hope, may to its ancient greatness rise.

CHORUS.

My children, of your line sole trust and stay,
Be silent lest your words be overheard,
And borne by some loose babbler to the ear
Of those in power, whom soon I hope to see
Laid smouldering on the pitchy funeral pile.

ORESTES.

My trust is in Apollo's oracle
That bade me set forth on this enterprise,
With high command and threats of dire disease
To gripe my vitals if I failed to wreak
Vengeance upon my father's murderers,
Enjoining me to slay as they had slain,
Taking no fine as quittance for his blood.
For this was I to answer with my life.
And as I would escape the penalties
[Footnote: This passage is corrupt or dislocated, and perplexes the
commentators. I have tried to give the general sense.]
That injured and neglected ghosts demand;
As fell diseases that with cankering maw
Eat the distempered flesh from off the bones,
Madness and panic fears that haunt by night;
Then banishment from human intercourse;
From the libation, from the loving cup,
And from the altar, whence a father's wrath
Unseen should drive the recreant; at the last
Death without honour and without a friend.--
Think ye that I such oracles could slight?
And if I did, the deed must still be done;
For many motives join to set me on:
The gods command, my murdered father calls
For vengeance, and my desperate need impels;
All bid me save our famous citizens,
Troy's glorious conquerors, from the base yoke
Of yonder pair of women; for his heart
Is womanish, if not, we soon will know.

       *       *       *       *       *

_CLYTAEMNESTRA PLEADS TO HER SON ORESTES FOR HER LIFE IN VAIN._

LINES 860-916.

SERVANT.

Alas! my lord is slain, my lord is slain,
My lord is slain; Aegisthus is no more.
Haste and unbar the woman's chamber, haste;
Be stirring, or your aid will come too late.
What, ho! what, ho!
I shout unto the sleeping or the deaf.
Whither has Clytaemnestra gone? What does she?
Now is the queen on peril's sharpest edge,
And like to fall by the avenger's sword.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

How now? What means this shouting in the house?

SERVANT.

It means that dead men kill and live men die.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Ah me! Too well I can thy riddle guess;
By treason as we slew, we shall be slain.
Fetch me the axe, which well this hand can wield,
And we will strike for death or victory,
For to this mortal issue have we come.

ORESTES.

'Tis thee I seek; thy leman has enough.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Ah me! Aegisthus, then, my love, is slain.

ORESTES.

Thy love is he? Then shalt thou share his tomb,
And be his faithful consort to the end.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Oh, stay thy hand, my child, and spare this breast,
On which so often thou didst slumbering lie
And suck with baby lips the milk of life.

ORESTES.

Say, Pylades, shall nature's plea be heard?

PYLADES.

Half of Apollo's best has been fulfilled;
Think on the other half and on thine oath.
Better defy the world than brave the gods.

ORESTES.

Thou hast well spoken, and I do assent.

(_To_ CLYTAEMNESTRA.)

Come in; I'll lay thee at thy leman's side.
He to my father living was preferred,
And now in death his partner thou shalt be,
The guerdon due to thy adulterous love.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

I nursed thee; let me at thy side grow old.

ORESTES.

What, dwell with thee, my father's murderess?

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Blame destiny, my son, for what I did.

ORESTES.

Blame destiny for what I now must do.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Hast thou no reverence for a mother's prayer?

ORESTES.

That mother ruthlessly cast off her child.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Not cast thee off; but sent thee to a friend.

ORESTES.

Twice was I sold, although a freeman born.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

What was the price that I received for thee?

ORESTES.

To tell thee in plain words I am ashamed.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Tell it, but tell thy sire's transgression too.

ORESTES.

Home-keeping wives should not the toilers chide.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

'Tis sad for wives to lie without their mates.

ORESTES.

Yet wives are fed by those that sweat abroad.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

It seems, my child, thou wilt thy mother slay.

ORESTES.

Not on my head but thine thy blood will be.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Strike, and a mother's Furies follow thee.

ORESTES.

A father's will, if I withhold the blow.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

Deaf as the grave is he to whom I wail.

ORESTES.

As died my father thou art doomed to die.

CLYTAEMNESTRA.

My womb too truly has a serpent borne.

ORESTES.

No lying prophet was thy dream of fear.
Unnatural was thy deed, so be thy doom.

THE EUMENIDES

The ancient Council of the Areopagus, like other primeval councils,
was at once political and judicial. It was the venerable stronghold of
the old Athenian and conservative party to which Aeschylus belonged,
and was at this time being attacked by the radical party under
Pericles and Ephialtes. To save it from its enemies by awakening
national sentiment on its behalf, Aeschylus presents it as the high
court of justice selected on account of its supreme moral authority
totry the grand mythical case of Orestes arraigned by the Furies for
matricide. There is also a good word for the diplomatic connection
between Argos, represented by Orestes, and Athens. Orestes by Apollo's
advice has appealed to the Areopagus. The court consists of Athenian
citizens. Athene in person presides. The Furies appear as the
